http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/health/food-comas-drayer/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwif4t-qk_XRAhVQ3mMKHe27CDM4ChCnAggVMAA&usg=AFQjCNEqAbeCBlwUlAyAQz4l9w7_PMxYuQ
Are 'food comas' real or a figment of your digestion?
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Lisa Drayer, CNNUpdated 9:48 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)You've just finished a big meal, and you're stuffed. You're thinking of taking a walk or even a stretch before clearing the table, but the thought of just getting out of your chair seems like a challenge. Get fit with Daily BurnTry a new workout every day30-day fitness trial, 50% off first monthSpartan Race obstacle training programSee the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.Lisa Drayer is a nutritionist, author and health journalist.The idea of taking a snooze on the couch seems more and more appealing. 
Sounds familiar? There's a name for it: It's called postprandial somnolence -- commonly referred to as "food coma." The phenomenon refers to the tired, sleepy feeling that many of us experience after eating a big meal. And the causes are based on different theories, some more plausible than others.
Blood flow shifts 
According to David Levitsky, professor of nutrition and psychology at Cornell University, the most likely explanation for food comas has to do with changes in circulation. When food enters your stomach and activates the gastrointestinal tract, "blood flow shifts from the muscles and brain into the stomach and intestines," he explained. "And when blood volume goes down in the brain, we get woozy and tired. It's why I have to make my lectures extremely exciting: They're right after lunch." 
These blood shifts occur because eating a meal activates our parasympathetic nervous system, the part of our nervous system that triggers digestion and absorption of food. It's been dubbed the "rest and digest system," as its aim is to conserve energy as it slows heart rate and increases intestinal activity, preparing the body to assimilate a meal's nutrients. 
On the flip side, our sympathetic nervous system takes on the opposite role: It's triggered in response to a threat or danger and induces a "fight or flight" response, resulting in increased heart rate and increased blood flow to the brain. 
Bigger meals have more effects
You're not at risk of falling into a food coma if you're just having a few bites of a snack, though. "It's got to be a large meal," Levitsky said. "The parasympathetic nervous system is activated when you eat, but (the extent to which it induces sleepiness) depends on the magnitude of the meal." 
How does it work? It has to do with gastric distention, or the stretching of the stomach after we eat a large amount of food. The bigger the meal, the more distention and the greater the effects. 
"If you have a large meal, the (degree of) gastric distention and hormonal stimulation that occurs will make you sleepier than if you had a bowl of soup," explained Dr. William Orr, a clinical professor of medicine at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center who has published studies on the topic.
Also, a liquid meal seems to make us less tired than a solid meal. "Our study found that in contrast to a liquid meal, a solid meal creates more sleepiness when compared to an equivalent volume of water," Orr said. 
Part of the reason is that liquids and solids stimulate different parts of the stomach and have different feedback stimuli to the brain, according to Orr. Liquids are primarily handled in the upper part of the stomach, known as the fundus, whereas solids are primarily processed in the antrum, or the lower part. It's more likely that the antrum has neural connections in the brain that are more likely to induce sleepiness, he said.
Hormone theories: CCK, serotonin and tryptophan
CCK is an intestinal hormone that rises in the blood after you eat, a fact well-known and documented in rats, according to Levitsky. And in rats, injections of CCK at very high doses put them to sleep. "But if you infuse CCK through a catheter until it reaches the concentrations normally seen after eating a meal, rats don't necessarily get sleepy," Levitsky said. The bottom line: CCK may not play a meaningful role in post-meal fatigue after all. 
A similar case can be made for serotonin, a neurotransmitter that is produced from the amino acid tryptophan and is responsible for feelings of relaxation and sleepiness. It's true that after we eat, the amount of tryptophan in the blood increases, especially if we eat a lot of carbohydrates -- and this would theoretically lead to greater production of serotonin in the brain. However, the amount of tryptophan that increases after we eat is not great enough to raise brain serotonin levels.
"If you infuse serotonin directly into the brain, it will make you go to sleep, but like CCK, the concentration necessary to produce this effect is supraphysiological," Levitsky said. "The direction of the theory is correct, but the quantification is not." 
Protein, fat and circadian rhythms
Protein delays gastric dumping, which means food, and its surrounding supply of blood, tends to stay in the stomach longer.
"It is theoretically possible that after eating a large (protein-rich) meal, you may feel more tired," Levitsky said. Indeed, a recent study involving fruit flies found that the more protein the flies consumed, the longer they slept. A similar case can be made for fat, which also takes longer to digest -- though when eaten with carbs, small amounts of protein or fat can help stave off sleepiness by slowing the rise in blood sugar after a meal, which can help prevent blood sugar spikes and crashes. 
Circadian rhythms contribute to food comas, too. In our bodies, there is a normal decrease in arousal that occurs in the early to mid-afternoon, a biological phenomenon that contributes to sleepiness and is compounded by eating a meal. 
"Around 1 or 1:30 p.m. is right about when that dip occurs, where we are a little more drowsy," Orr explained, though that time can vary based on when you wake up. "Even if you don't eat lunch, you would still get sleepy due to the circadian rhythm. But when we eat at this time, it's a double whammy." 
There's also a dip in the evening -- due largely to the normal circadian decrease in body temperature that occurs at this time -- and a large dinner would compound the food coma effect. But for most, feeling sleepy when it's closer to bedtime serves us better than becoming drowsy earlier in the day. "In the mid-afternoon, you're occupied with the tasks of daily living, and getting very sleepy does not help!" Orr said.
Preventing a food coma
Though a food coma may seem inevitable at times, there are some things you can do that may help:
Eat small meals. The bigger the meal, the greater the chance you'll be drowsy. "We have to consciously put small amounts of food on our plates," says Levitsky. At lunchtime, small portions are especially important, because the lunchtime dip in arousal compounds the effects. "If I want to avoid postprandial sleepiness, I will have a light lunch, because I know no matter what, at 1 or 2 p.m., I will be sleepy, even if I don't eat anything," Orr said. Have an early lunch. "If you eat at 1 p.m., that's right at the time of the endogenous circadian dip," Orr said. It's better to eat an earlier lunch about 11:45 a.m. rather than a later lunch at, say, 1 or 1:30, right when that dip occurs.Choose liquids over solids. That doesn't mean lunch has to be limited to smoothies, though occasionally they're fine as a mini meal. "If you have a salad or a bowl of soup as opposed to a hamburger -- something with more of a liquid consistency, with a higher water content -- that's better," Orr said. Opt for carbs that are low on the glycemic index over ones that are high. Low-GI carbs include whole wheat bread, oatmeal, beans, peas, most fruits and non-starchy vegetables. Limit white bread, white rice, bagels, pretzels and crackers.Grab a cup of coffee. "You can counter the effects of sleepiness after a meal by consuming caffeine," Levitsky said. A cup of coffee or cappuccino should suffice. Though caffeine can serve as a helpful stimulant, too much can lead to restlessness and can interfere with sleep later on. Skip the wine and martinis. "Alcohol is a sedative, so this just adds to the drowsiness," Orr explained. If you enjoy a drink with a meal, choose dinnertime over lunch, and limit yourself to one beverage.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/world/dinosaur-rib-195-million-year-old-collagen-history/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwif4t-qk_XRAhVQ3mMKHe27CDM4ChCnAggYMAE&usg=AFQjCNGyfPL5dMqFFiEqTLh6M0Nvqm3MIA
Ancient tissue found in 195 million-year-old dinosaur rib
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Ashley Strickland, CNNUpdated 11:09 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)It might be the oldest soft tissue sample ever found. Researchers discovered ancient collagen and protein remains preserved in the ribs of a dinosaur that walked the Earth 195 million years ago. No, this doesn't mean "Jurassic Park" is about to become a reality. But finding such well-preserved organic remains from one of the oldest dinosaurs, a Lufengosaurus, is unprecedented. 
"This finding extends the record of preserved organic remains more than 100 million years," the researchers said in their study, published in the journal Nature Communications on Tuesday. The researchers were from Taiwan, China and Canada.
Previously found collagen fragments dated back 75 million or 80 million years ago. The location of the newly discovered collagen was also surprising. 
"Usually, people have looked and found collagen in the big, massive limb bones, not in the more delicate ribs," said Robert Reisz, one of the authors of the study and a paleontologist at University of Toronto Mississauga.
Collagen is one of the main protein components in connective tissues and skin. In this case, the researchers believe that the collagen and protein they found in the tiny vascular canals of the rib represent the remains of blood vessels. When the dinosaur was alive, this is where blood vessels, blood and nerves would have been housed.
Hematite samples, represented by dark red dots, were also found in the vascular canals. Hematite is a mineral that can be derived from iron-rich hemoglobin, the protein molecule in red blood cells that transports oxygen from the lungs to tissues. 
The hematite most likely came from hemoglobin and other iron-rich proteins in the dinosaur's blood, acting like a preservative for the collagen, the researchers said. Studying these samples can give them a better idea of the early stages of dinosaur evolution. 
The researchers also focused on preservation and used noninvasive imaging techniques such as spectroscopy and microspectroscopy rather than removing the samples and dissolving away parts of the fossil, like in similar, previous studies. This also decreased the likelihood of the sample becoming contaminated with modern bacteria. 
Lufengosaurus lived 190 million to 200 million years ago, making it one of the oldest dinosaurs from the early Jurassic period. 
Characterized by a long neck and body that stretched about 26 feet, it probably spent part of its time walking on two legs. Even though it had sharp teeth and claws, Lufengosaurus was most likely a herbivore. It was a type of sauropodomorpha, a class of long-necked "lizard-footed" dinosaurs that fed on plants.
Their fossils, and even nests containing embryos, are most commonly found in Lufeng, for which they were named, in China's Yunnan Province. Some of the same researchers from this study discovered the "bonebed" of nests full of embryos, also including preserved organic remains, in 2013.  
"Previously, we had some evidence of organic remains in the embryos, but did not really have any detailed information about those organics," Reisz said. 
The researchers hope that their discovery will enable to them to find more preserved ancient proteins and study them in a way that promotes preservation.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/us/el-chapo-guzman-federal-court-new-york/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwif4t-qk_XRAhVQ3mMKHe27CDM4ChCnAggbMAI&usg=AFQjCNGGf8Ay4CjxcAHnv-WcgRpfEDpzWQ
Mexican drug lord 'El Chapo' Guzman's lawyer says jail conditions 'excessive'
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Azadeh Ansari and Aaron Cooper, CNNUpdated 5:17 PM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)Reputed drug kingpin Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman isn't happy with jail conditions in America, his lawyers said Friday. CNN's Lawrence Crook, Ray Sanchez and Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report. Guzman wore dark blue prison garb during a status conference in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, where public defenders argued that their client's 23 hours under lock-down each day, with limited visits, kept him from selecting a private attorney.
"The current restrictions are excessive," one attorney, Michelle Gelernt of the Federal Defenders of New York, told reporters after the hearing.   
Guzman's wife, Emma Coronel, who has not been permitted to visit him at a federal detention center in Manhattan, attended the hearing but did not comment outside court.  
"It has been very difficult," Gelernt said of Coronel. "This is the first time she's seen him since he was brought to the United States." 
Guzman is charged with running a massive drug smuggling operation that laundered more than $14 billion. He faces other charges that include operation of a continuing criminal enterprise, conspiring to murder rivals and firearms violations. 
The charges carry a minimum sentence of life in prison, according to US Attorney Robert Capers of the Eastern District of New York. Mexico's foreign ministry handed Guzman over to the US prosecutors in January after it said it had received assurances that if convicted, Guzman would not receive the death penalty. Mexico opposes capital punishment.
During the 40-minute hearing, federal prosecutors argued that Guzman had financial means to afford lawyers and didn't need a public defender. They also said the prior representation by the federal defenders of five potential witnesses created a conflict. 
Guzman's lawyers said they would provide the court with a financial affidavit. 
"We think it's ridiculous that the government expects Mr. Guzman to choose a counsel when he's locked up 23 hours a day" with limited visitation rights, defense attorney Michael Schneider told reporters. 
"If they want him to have access to hire a lawyer, we believe he needs to be able to meet with his family or at least confer with his family," Schneider said. 
Gelernt also expressed concern about the legality of Guzman's extradition from Mexico, saying that a Mexican government document agreeing to allow Guzman to be charged in Brooklyn had not been turned over to defense lawyers.
Guzman's next court appearance will be in May.  
 A US judge initially ruled that Guzman, 59, would appear in court by video, but the order was changed after his attorneys asked the court to reconsider. Guzman's attorneys argued their client's absence in court would be prejudicial, creating the appearance that he is too dangerous to appear at the hearing. 
Guzman has been detained at a federal detention center in Manhattan since his extradition. 
A game of cat-and-mouse 
A day after his extradition, the master of escape, "El Chapo" pleaded not guilty in the New York federal court.
The indictment alleges that from 1989 to 2014 Guzman led a criminal enterprise responsible for importing and distributing massive amounts of narcotics and conspiring to murder rivals who posed a threat, Capers said.
For years, the notorious cartel leader played a game of cat-and-mouse with the law.
In January 2001, he escaped from a prison in Jalisco in a laundry cart. Guzman was apprehended in February 2014. He escaped again in July 2015 from the maximum-security Altiplano federal prison near Toluca, Mexico, by crawling through an opening in the shower area of his cell block leading to a mile-long tunnel. He was later captured in January 2016.
"El Chapo" is the noted leader of the Sinaloa Cartel, which the US Justice Department describes as "one of the world's most prolific, violent and powerful drug cartels," moving billions and billions of dollars in marijuana, cocaine, heroin and methamphetamine.
Trafficking these drugs into the United States from Mexico is a business worth $19 billion to $20 billion annually, according to a Department of Homeland Security report.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/world/lost-continent-mauritius-trnd/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwif4t-qk_XRAhVQ3mMKHe27CDM4ChCnAggeMAM&usg=AFQjCNEwV3KcdOWUTtG0lHky9cy1p1R07w
'Lost continent' found under Mauritius in the Indian Ocean
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Juliet PerryUpdated 10:48 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)Found -- one lost continent, hiding underneath a tropical holiday destination. It might sound implausible, but deep at the bottom of the Indian Ocean, a research team, led by South Africa's University of the Witwatersrand, has found pieces of an ancient continent.
The lava-covered piece of continent, dubbed 'Mauritia,' was found under the popular island of Mauritius. 
According to the report published this week in the journal Nature Communications, the piece of crust is left over from the breakup of Gondwanaland, a super-continent that existed more than 200 million years ago.
Containing rocks up to 3.6 billion years old, Gondawanaland split into what now are Africa, South America, Antarctica, India and Australia.
Professor Lewis Ashwal, lead author of the paper, says there are a number of pieces of "undiscovered continent" of various sizes spread over the Indian Ocean, left over by the breakup.
"This breakup did not involve a simple splitting of the ancient super-continent of Gondwana," says Ashwal, but "a complex splintering took place with fragments of continental crust of variable sizes left adrift within the evolving Indian Ocean basin." 
The team made the discovery by analyzing a mineral -- zircon -- found in rocks spewed up by lava during volcanic eruptions. 
They said that remnants of the mineral were way too old to belong to Mauritius. "Mauritius is an island, and there is no rock older than 9 million years old on the island," says Ashwal. But by studying rocks on the island, they found zircons that were 3 billion years old.
The researchers say these findings corroborate a study done in 2013 that found traces of ancient zircons in beach sand. But critics said the mineral could have been blown in by the wind, or carried in by the scientists.
Ashwal says the fact the team found ancient zircons in rock "refutes any suggestion of wind-blown, wave-transported or pumice-rafted zircons." 
The researchers say their results demonstrate, in no uncertain terms, "the existence of ancient continental crust beneath Mauritius."
RELATED: Mauritius -- the best Africa destination you know almost nothing about
That continent might be lost forever, but it's still leaving traces to remind us of its existence. 
"The fact that we have found zircons of this age proves that there are much older crustal materials under Mauritius that could only have originated from a continent," said Ashwal.
http://money.cnn.com/2017/02/02/technology/uber-travis-kalanick-trump-advisory-council/index.html&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwif4t-qk_XRAhVQ3mMKHe27CDM4ChCnAgghMAQ&usg=AFQjCNEaPQHw2Zpx13okkhV5gM5TxrLqLQ
By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the new Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: Â© 2016 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2016. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poorâ€™s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2016 and/or its affiliates.
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: Â© 2016 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2016. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poorâ€™s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2016 and/or its affiliates.
© 2017 Cable News Network. A Time Warner Company. All Rights Reserved.  Terms under which this service is provided to you.  Privacy Policy. .


© 2017 Cable News Network. A Time Warner Company. All Rights Reserved.  Terms under which this service is provided to you.  Privacy Policy. .http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/politics/travel-ban-iranian-baby-heart-surgery-trnd/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwif4t-qk_XRAhVQ3mMKHe27CDM4ChCnAggkMAU&usg=AFQjCNHtVYIbTkqPPGwV3e5-EKya04IUrQ
Trump travel ban leaves Iranian baby's heart surgery in limbo 
By Azadeh Ansari and Marlena Baldacci, CNNUpdated 8:57 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)An Iranian infant with a heart defect is entangled in President Trump's immigration ban -- and her extended family in Oregon is on an urgent mission to get her to the US for critical surgery. Fatemeh's parents were scheduled to meet with doctors in Portland on February 5, but were barred from traveling from Tehran to Portland, Fatemeh's uncle, Samad Teghizadeh, told CNN Thursday.
Last month, Iranian doctors in Tehran told baby Fatemeh's family that the 4-month-old has structural abnormalities and two holes in her heart, but they lack the resources to treat the infant.
Fatemeh and her parents boarded a flight to Dubai on Saturday but they were rerouted back to Iran and told to reapply for a US visa in 90 days. 
Teghizadeh, a US citizen who lives in Portland, worries his niece will not make it until then.
The delay comes after Trump's executive order put an abrupt stop on travel to the US for citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries, including Iran.
A call for help
Many state and federal officials have intervened on behalf of the family, a Washington, D.C.-based immigration attorney working on the case, Amber Murray told CNN. 
Murray is helping the family obtain an emergency waiver to navigate around the ban. 
If the waiver fails, the family could consider applying on a humanitarian basis which could take 30-90 days, Murray advised. 
Lawyers involved with the case are working with State Department officials to see if that could be expedited, should the waiver not be granted, Murray said. 
"I'm very concerned," Oregon Gov. Kate Brown said in a press conference Thursday. 
"I find it deplorable that an infant, who was supposed to come to Oregon to receive much needed lifesaving care, was not able to access that care at Oregon Health Sciences University."
The governor's office has connected with the family to determine if medical help can be provided, spokesman for Gov. Brown, Bryan Hockaday, told CNN. 
Fatemeh's family also contacted Oregon Sen. Jeff Merkley's office asking for help.
Sen. Merkley hopes to use whatever leverage he has to help, he "has taken interest in the case and assigned a case worker from his office to work as a facilitator between the family and immigration lawyers," Hottman told CNN. 
"He's involved and very personally interested in this issue, being very opposed to this ban as its having potentially devastating effect on lives," Hottman said. 
The surgery
Doctors from around the country, also from Canada and Germany, have responded to calls for help, Murray told CNN. 
"She has a fairly complicated anatomy with a muscular VSD," Murray said. 
A ventricular septal defect (VSD), is a common heart defect present at birth due to an abnormal connection between the ventricles or lower chambers of the heart, according to the Mayo Clinic. 
Doctors are awaiting more of Fatemeh's medical records but in addition to having a VSD, the initial diagnosis indicates she also has other heart complications including an atrial septal defect -- a "hole" in the wall that separates the top two chambers of the heart. 
Fatemeh's family is hoping a doctor will perform the surgeries pro-bono.  
Doctors in Tehran sent the results of Fatemeh's echocardiogram to doctors in Portland who reviewed her case said she needs to be operated on urgently, projecting that while Fatemeh has a long road ahead -- at least two surgeries will be necessary to fix the holes in her heart -- her chance for survival is much higher in the US. 
Teghizadeh, who has been an American citizen for seven years, lives with his parents in Portland -- Fatemeh's grandparents -- who are also US citizens. 
"This is my home. We live here. My work and everything is in the US," he aid. "Believe me, if I didn't have a brother and sister in Iran, I wouldn't go there. This is our home."  
Teghizadeh just wants his sister's baby to get the care she needs.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/middleeast/iraq-mosul-zoo-animals-trnd/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwif4t-qk_XRAhVQ3mMKHe27CDM4ChCnAggnMAY&usg=AFQjCNE7pwlR5X_hKhYp3pwp6u7UmqsnAQ
These zoo animals survived the battle to retake Mosul from ISIS
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Joel Williams, CNNUpdated 11:00 PM ET, Thu February 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)An emaciated lion lying curled up on a rubble-strewn floor; a bear peering through a window, looking scared. These animals, pictured in images posted on social media by activist blogger Mosul Eye this week, are the only two that survived after a Mosul zoo was destroyed in the battle to retake the city from ISIS. Many people were killed in the fighting, nearly 2,000 Iraqi troops in the month of November alone. As the images posted by Mosul Eye show, zoo animals were also casualties in the conflict. 
Before ISIS invaded the city in 2014, the animals were housed in the zoo in a public park along the banks of the Tigris River, a strategic location in the battle for the city. The park was taken over by ISIS and used as a military base, said the blogger, who documented life in the city under ISIS. Communicating with CNN via Twitter, the blogger asked to remain anonymous for safety reasons. 
CNN is unable to verify the Mosul Eye blog and its posts on Twitter and Facebook independently, but Iraqi journalists and scholars vouch for its veracity.
After eastern Mosul was liberated in January, residents found the animals roaming free in a smaller park in Mosul's Al-Murur neighborhood, the blogger said, estimating that the lion and bear survived on their own for over four months.
Of all the zoo's animals, only the bear and the lion pictured in Mosul Eye's photos remain. A lioness that made it through the battle recently died, and many of the zoo's monkeys, rabbits and other animals died during ISIS' occupation, according to Mosul Eye. 
Now life in eastern Mosul, where the zoo was located, is slowly returning to normal. Youth volunteer teams are engaged in efforts to make their city beautiful again, according to Mosul Eye.
And Mosul Eye's plea for help for the animals did not go unanswered. A Kurdish veterinarian sent food for them, the blogger said. Residents are also working to clean up the park where the bear and lion are living. 
There is a lot more work to be done, but Mosul Eye hopes that efforts to take care of the animals will bring a measure of humanity back to his city.
"When you learn to care for the animals and be kind to them, then you will know the value of human life. In this life, everything is connected. There's no part that is worthless." 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/politics/betsy-devos-clears-another-hurdle-in-early-morning-senate-vote/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwif4t-qk_XRAhVQ3mMKHe27CDM4ChCnAggqMAc&usg=AFQjCNFbQuJYPFpUA6K09Vc_T_SJFALwow
Betsy DeVos clears another hurdle in early morning Senate vote
By Ted Barrett, Sunlen Serfaty and Ashley Killough, CNNUpdated 11:41 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)The Senate voted early Friday to advance President Donald Trump's education secretary nominee Betsy DeVos to a final confirmation vote, which is expected Monday.CNN's Phil Mattingly contributed to this report. The vote was 52 to 48 along party lines.
Senators convened at the unusual, early hour -- 6:30 a.m. ET -- because of Democratic stalling tactics that reflect their unhappiness with Trump's cabinet picks and the overall confirmation process.
DeVos has come under fire from Democrats and two key Republicans for her positions on public and charter schools, as well as statements made during her confirmation hearing last month.
Despite losing support from Republican Sens. Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, she is expected to be confirmed Monday with the help of Vice President Mike Pence, who will be in the chamber to break an expected 50-50 tie.
Collins and Murkowski, who both have said they intend to vote against DeVos' final conformation, voted to end the debate and advance her confirmation, as expected.
In an impassioned show of opposition, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer implored other senators to "look into their conscience" over the weekend and reconsider their support for DeVos, saying she is "one of the worst nominees that has ever been" brought before the Senate.
"Sometimes loyalty to a new president demands a bit too much," he said. "With this nominee it does."
Following the vote, Sen. Patty Murray, a Democrat from Washington State and the ranking member on the education committee that held a hearing on DeVos' nomination, took to the Senate floor to deliver a 25-minute speech blasting the nominee, a Michigan billionaire, not only on her positions but over questions about her finances and conflicts of interest.
Republican Sen. Lamar Alexander, the chairman of the education committee, also appeared on the floor to defend DeVos, citing her work in the conservative education reform movement over the years. "I'm pleased to support her," he said, adding that he looks forward to the final vote on her nomination early next week. 
In an interview with CNN after the vote, Sen. John Cornyn of Texas -- the No. 2 Republican in the Senate -- said the Democrats' concerns weren't "particularly fair" and argued that their ties to teachers unions are influencing them politically. 
"If people think our public education system is perfect, then I guess they don't think we need to have any changes or any choices for students and their families," he said. "I certainly think we do."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/politics/trump-voter-fraud-executive-order/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwif4t-qk_XRAhVQ3mMKHe27CDM4ChCnAggtMAg&usg=AFQjCNEdnu_uSGZJZlTjEUcm1uHUJJVsbw
Still no executive order on voter fraud, as Trump moves on
By Jeff Zeleny and Elizabeth Landers, CNNUpdated 1:17 PM ET, Thu February 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)A full week has passed since President Donald Trump said he would sign an executive order opening a Justice Department investigation into his unsubstantiated claim that millions of people voted illegally in November.The Oval Office signing was abruptly canceled last Thursday and never rescheduled. The White House hasn't talked about it since. The President has moved on to other subjects.
A senior administration official told CNN that the voter fraud investigation is no longer a top priority for the President, insisting it's not off the table, but not expected anytime soon.
The President has repeatedly claimed without evidence that 3 to 5 million people -- mainly undocumented immigrants -- committed voter fraud in his race with Hillary Clinton. He lost the popular vote to Clinton by nearly 3 million votes.
For days, the allegations overshadowed his message. Republican congressional leaders privately urged him to drop the matter, which escalated after Trump declared last week on Twitter: "I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and ... even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time)."
Trump was set to sign the action last Thursday afternoon. Reporters and photographers were summoned to the West Wing to document the signing, but waited for about 30 minutes amid confusion from aides.
At the time, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said the President "got jammed up on some meetings that needed to occur." 
Spicer said the order would be signed in the next day or two.
One aide said the President is waiting until Sen. Jeff Sessions is confirmed as attorney general before launching an investigation. But others inside the West Wing hope the President doesn't pursue it, CNN has learned.
"I think there will be something signed," one senior administration said, "but I don't think it will be now."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/asia/myanmar-rohingya-resistance/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwif4t-qk_XRAhVQ3mMKHe27CDM4ChCnAggwMAk&usg=AFQjCNG1JVfKgHaPpfZEEwnQ_xyE3YbY_A
Inside the Rohingya Resistance: The rebels who provoked Myanmar's crackdown
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Rebecca Wright and Ivan Watson, CNNUpdated 12:02 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Hong Kong (CNN)Walking barefoot, armed with knives, sticks and a few stolen guns, dozens of young men march through the muddy fields of Myanmar's Rakhine State.The Rohingya are a stateless Muslim minority in Myanmar's Rakhine state thought to number about one million peopleMyanmar does not recognize them as citizens or one of the 135 recognized ethnic groups living in the countryMuch of this is rooted in their heritage in East Bengal, now called Bangladesh Though many Rohingya have only known life in Myanmar, they are widely viewed as intruders from across the borderAccording to Human Rights Watch, laws discriminate against the Rohingya, infringing on their freedom of movement, education, and employmentThey are denied land and property rights and ownership, and land on which they live can be taken away at any given timeCNN's Manny Maung and Aung Naing Soe contributed reporting."We will not rest, these are our fighters, come and join us," one says on the video uploaded to YouTube.
Together, they represent the first armed insurgency to emerge from the Muslim minority Rohingya in decades.
They call themselves Harakat al-Yaqeen, or "Faith Movement," and they have claimed responsibility for a deadly attack on Myanmar border posts in October, which killed nine police officers.
Is genocide unfolding in Myanmar?
Fighting back
In his first ever interview with the media, the group's leader, Atah Ullah, says they decided to fight back against the government after 70 years of repression.
"We, the vulnerable and persecuted people, have asked the international community for protection against the atrocities by the government of Myanmar, but the international community turned its back on us," Atah Ullah says in an exclusive interview obtained by CNN. 
"Finally, we cannot take it anymore."
An estimated one million Muslim Rohingyas live in Rakhine State, where they are a persecuted, stateless ethnic minority in Buddhist-majority Myanmar. The government of Myanmar, also known as Burma, does not officially recognize the Rohingya, regarding them as illegal immigrants from neighboring Bangladesh, despite many being able to trace their roots back in Myanmar for generations.
"In the October 9th attack, we did not have any sophisticated weapons," Atah Ullah says. "We attacked them using our machetes, swords, and knives, and we seized their weapons to use against them." 
In response, the Myanmar military launched what it calls "clearance operations" in the Rohingya villages to find the suspects involved in the attack, and to retrieve their weapons.
In early November, the military deployed helicopters which opened fire during clashes with Rohingya militants.
State media reports that in the process, more than 100 Rohingyas described as "violent attackers" have been killed, although activists tell CNN the number is far higher. Nearly 500 Rohingyas have also been arrested.
To escape the violence, at least 69,000 people have fled across the border to Bangladesh, the latest figures from the UN's Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA) show.
Tales of misery
Many of the refugees arriving in Bangladesh, including several who spoke to CNN, have reported mass killings, rapes and burning of villages by government forces.
"The military took away my son," says Hamid Hossain, a refugee in Teknaf, Bangladesh. "The military took away 89 boys from our villages."
"The military has been torturing us since 2012. They are killing Rohingyas and raping women," he says.
CNN cannot independently verify the accounts from inside Rakhine State, because access to journalists and aid agencies is heavily restricted.
Amnesty International says the government's actions "may amount to crimes against humanity."
Yanghee Lee, the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, visited Myanmar last month and said she saw with her "own eyes" the burnt houses in Rakhine State.
In a news conference in Yangon at the end of the trip, she concluded that if the population felt like the new government was "addressing their situation," then "extreme elements would not have easily been able to hijack their cause."
She added that the government's response seems to be to "defend, dismiss and deny," and is "counterproductive."
In a 4,000-word written statement to CNN, Myanmar government spokesperson Aye Aye Soe denies human rights abuses.
"What is happening in Rakhine now is only security clearance sweeps being carried out with restraint and within rules and regulations against armed perpetrators," Aye Aye Soe says. "The instigators are using this situation to portray a disproportionate picture of 'genocide' and 'ethnic cleansing.'"
'Immediate action' 
The government has acknowledged wrongdoing in one incident, after a video emerged of a Myanmar police officer kicking a Rohingya man in the face.
"The government took immediate action against the responsible police personnel for acting on emotion and against rules and regulation," Aye Aye Soe says.
Atah Ullah says the video is one of many examples of police brutality during the recent government crackdown.
"We are not embedded in Rohingya communities," he says. "But the government is using false propaganda to commit atrocities."
Atah Ullah insists that al-Yaqeen are not "terrorists," saying they will never attack civilians.
"Atrocity, violence, and injustice against any innocent civilians is not in the principles or policy of al-Yaqeen," he says. "It is not in our moral values to cause harm to innocent Burmese Buddhists or Rakhine people."
Their only target, Ullah says, are government forces.
"We will continue to attack the oppressor, the government, until our citizenship is reinstated," Ullah says. "We appeal to the international community to help us in reclaiming our rights, so that we will not have to resort to bloodshed, but until we get all our basic rights back we will continue to fight."
Aye Aye Soe says there is no excuse for the group's actions.
"There should not be any justification for taking up arms against peaceful legitimate governments and the people of the country," she says.
"If they are allowed to justify the killing of police personnel ... then the sovereign government of the country has a more legitimate right and duty to protect the people, enforce law and order, maintain peace and stability and rule of law."
Atah Ullah says he feels no remorse for the fallout of the October 9 attack, saying that the Rohingya people support them because "it is their hope and aspiration for reclaiming all their rights."
'Not a good move'
CNN visited the Rohingya refugee camps in Bangladesh, to find out how those who have borne the brunt of the violence feel about al-Yaqeen.
"The leader is trying to give freedom to the oppressed Rohingyas in Rakhine State," says Amir Hossain, a refugee in Kutupalong Camp, Cox's Bazar.
"But they didn't have enough arms to fight against the military. That's why they could not fight back."
 Pormina Begum, a refugee in the Leda refugee camp in Teknaf, supports al-Yaqeen.
 "They (al-Yaqeen) are working to save our dignity," Begum says. "Maybe they have failed initially. But they will be successful in the future."
Hamid Hossain, another refugee in Teknaf, thinks the attack was a bad idea.
"I think it was not a good move by al-Yaqeen," Hossain tells CNN. "Their attack on border guards was a premature step."
But, he says, the conflict has at least raised attention to their plight.
"Had they not been attacked the Myanmar police, no one would talk about the suffering of Rohingyas," Hossain says. "Now everyone knows about the crisis." 
Another refugee, who did not want to be identified, said many Rohingyas are scared to disagree with al-Yaqeen for fear of reprisals.
"We can't debate with al-Yaqeen members. If someone does, they think he is taking the side of army," he says. "They might even kill people if anyone is suspected of supporting the government."
"The sad situation is that the community lives in fear of both the security forces and the violent extremists," Myanmar government spokesperson Aye Aye Soe says.
'Game changer'
As the humanitarian crisis grows on both sides of the border, there is growing concern among security analysts about the future of the nascent rebel movement.
In a lengthy report released in December, security experts at the International Crisis Group (ICG) described al-Yaqeen as a "game-changer" for Myanmar.
"The threat is not because of their military strength, it's because of what they represent, the potential of the country facing a very well organized, violent jihadi movement," Richard Horsey, the ICG's Myanmar Consultant tells CNN. 
"It's clear that's not the case so far, but it seems that is what the military and government appear to be worried about."
Atah Ullah insists al-Yaqeen does not receive foreign funding and will never align with terror groups such as ISIS, but Horsey says the group "could in the future potentially be taken advantage of by global jihadist activists."
The Rohingyas have "never been a radicalized population," with the majority seeing violence as "counterproductive," Horsey says. "The fact that more people are now embracing violence reflects deep policy failures over many years rather than any sort of inevitability."
Looking to The Lady
The blame for these apparent failures is partly being directed at Myanmar State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, whose National League for Democracy party swept to power in a landslide victory in 2015.
The Nobel Peace Prize winner has been criticized for not doing enough to protect the Rohingyas. In response she has asked for more "time and space" to resolve the problems.
The government says Aung San Suu Kyi's creation of the Kofi Annan-led Rakhine Commission in September, and efforts to begin a new process to give citizenship rights to the Rohingya people, shows its intention to resolve the problems in the region.
"The State Counsellor has instructed the process to continue in areas where there's no opposition and to issue citizenship cards as soon as possible to the Muslims," Aye Aye Soe says. "These actions are a testimony of the government's seriousness to tackle this issue."
Despite these assurances, there is still huge disappointment in the new administration among Rohingyas.
Under Myanmar's constitution, which was written and approved by the military junta in 2008, Aung San Suu Kyi and her elected government share authority with top generals, who maintain control over large parts of security policy. 
Aye Aye Soe insists that the government has the "full support" of the military.
But Atah Ullah says this power structure means their dreams of change were unrealistic.
"We had hopes that (Suu Kyi) would also justly stand up for the rights of the Rohingya people," he says. 
"Now it turns out that the Myanmar military has completely controlled her. That's why we no longer have confidence in her."
"Whatever respect and love we had for her, that's all gone."
