http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/asia/mattis-us-north-korea-thaad-missile-defense/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwid3O61k_XRAhVL2WMKHb2_D6I4FBCnAggVMAA&usg=AFQjCNGX9rB0YoNymU9i-LqDM5IrtZZQRA
North Korea accuses US, South Korea of plotting nuclear attack
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Brad Lendon, CNNChat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)The commitment of the US and South Korea to a new missile defense system is pushing the Korean peninsula to the "brink of a nuclear war," North Korea warned Friday.CNN's Sol Han contributed to this report.Pyongyang said the missile system, also opposed by China, was part of a joint plot between Seoul and Washington to mount a "preemptive attack on the North", according to a statement on the official KCNA news agency attributed to the National Peace Committee of Korea.
The statement coincided with a a visit by new US Defense Secretary James Mattis to Seoul, where he pledged to deploy THAAD -- the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system -- to protect US and South Korean troops.
Mattis promised an "overwhelming" response to any attack mounted by North Korea.
"North Korea continues to launch missiles, develop its nuclear weapons program and engage in threatening rhetoric and behavior," Mattis said at a press conference in Seoul on Friday.
Speaking alongside South Korean Defense Minister Han Min-koo, he added: "Any attack on the United States or on our allies will be defeated and any use of nuclear weapons will be met with a response that will be effective and overwhelming."
The North Korean statement said THAAD was part of an offensive strategy between Seoul and Washington, alleging the two had "worked out a plan for a preemptive attack on the North and ... desperately pushed forward it, pushing the situation on the peninsula to the brink of a nuclear war."
On Thursday Mattis said Pyongyang's "provocative behavior" made THAAD necessary.
China again called for the THAAD missile defense system to be halted. In his regular press conference on Friday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said Beijing "firmly opposed" the new system.
"This has not changed and will not change. Our position is very clear-cut and straight forward," he said.
"We believe that the action by the US and the Republic of Korea will undermine the strategic and security interests of regional countries including China."
Later on Friday, Mattis traveled to Japan, which also feels threatened by North Korea's nuclear and missile programs.
Speaking in Tokyo at a meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Mattis reaffirmed Washington's support. "I want there to be no misunderstanding during the transition in Washington that we stand firmly, 100 percent shoulder to shoulder with you and the Japanese people, Mr. Prime Minister."
Mattis' visit to the region comes at a time of relative quiet from Kim Jong Un's regime, which hasn't tested a ballistic missile since October 20. Earlier in 2016, it fired projectiles at a record rate.
North Korea nevertheless continues to make bellicose statements, including one from leader Kim Jong Un on New Year's Day in which he said his military is on the brink of testing its first intercontinental ballistic missile -- a rocket that could be equipped with nuclear weapons and is powerful enough to reach any part of the United States.
Analysts point out, however, that Kim's bluster is often more for internal consumption than an actual threat to South Korea and the US, which has 28,000 troops in South Korea.
"He demands from his people and subordinates complete obedience to his leadership, because the country is on the verge of imminent invasion from the US and South Korea," said Seung-Kyun Ko, a professor at Hawaii Pacific University and a former research commissioner in South Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "He creates cohesion and unity among his people in facing the invasion."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/entertainment/faith-evans-biggie-album/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwid3O61k_XRAhVL2WMKHb2_D6I4FBCnAggaMAE&usg=AFQjCNENHmP0SM-7umSJ2gUWutdM81NQkA
Faith Evans announces Notorious B.I.G. duets album
By Lisa Respers France, CNNUpdated 1:36 PM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)Twenty years after the unsolved murder of rapper The Notorious B.I.G, his wife is releasing an album of duets with him.© 2017 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2017 Cable News Network. R & B star Faith Evans announced on Friday that "The King & I" will be released on May 19, two days before what would have been the rapper's 45th birthday.
The Notorious B.I.G. -- also known as Biggie Smalls and born Christopher Wallace -- was gunned down in Los Angeles on March 9, 1997. 
Evans and Wallace were still legally married but estranged at the time of his death.
The couple met on a photo shoot in 1994 and married nine days later.
Both were artists on the Bad Boy record label. Their romance was the hip hop version of Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton, complete with public accusations of infidelity and blow out fights.
But there was also the art. They worked together on one of the rapper's biggest hits, the remix of his single "One More Chance." 
According to Evan's site, the album will contain 25 tracks featuring newly recorded vocals by Evans combined with the rapper's vocals.
The project will include both well-known songs and "a selection of rare and unheard rhymes from the B.I.G. vault. "
Guest artists will include Busta Rhymes, Jadakiss, Lil' Cease, Lil' Kim, Sheek Louch, Styles P, and Snoop Dogg. 
"I remember telling Ms. Wallace [the rapper's mother] years ago that one day it would be really dope if I could do something similar to Natalie and Nat King Cole's Unforgettable," Evans said in a statement. "Knowing the love that B.I.G. had for Tyanna [his daughter] & Ceejay [his son by Evans], I feel it's my duty to uphold and extend his legacy, especially his musical contributions."
"This project is my creative reflection of the love we had and the bond we will always have," she added. "I'm elated to share this musical journey with our fans!"
Biggie's mother, Voletta Wallace, will also provide narration on some of the album's interludes. 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/politics/house-vote-guns-mental-illnesses/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwid3O61k_XRAhVL2WMKHb2_D6I4FBCnAggdMAI&usg=AFQjCNHAKCJaG2jFQMoZWjcUwbbw1EMTXw
House rolls back Obama gun background check rule
By Ted Barrett, CNNUpdated 6:59 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)The Republican-led House voted Thursday to repeal an Obama-era regulation that required the Social Security Administration to disclose to the national gun background check system information about people with mental illness. CLARIFICATION: The story and headline have been updated to more fully reflect the impact of the rule.The regulation instituted in the final days of the Obama administration required the SSA to share information about those who are considered incapable of managing their own disability benefits due mental illness.
The rule sought to limit the ability of those with mental illness to purchase guns but drew criticism for casting too wide a net and not providing the opportunity for due process. Opponents of the rule, including the National Rifle Association and the American Civil Liberties Union, also said the broad range of reasons that could be used to designate someone for the SSA database include conditions that should not stop a gun purchase.
The vote was 235-180. 
"The Social Security Administration not only overstepped its mission with this regulation, it discriminated against certain Americans with disabilities who receive Social Security benefits. The agency should be focused on serving all of its beneficiaries, not picking and choosing whose Second Amendment rights to deny," said Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas, who chairs the Ways and Means Committee.
Democrats complained that repealing the rule, which was adopted in the waning days of the Obama administration, would lead to more gun violence.
"The American people and the families that are being hurt day after day by gun violence -- they deserve some due process too," said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas. 
Republicans are using the Congressional Review Act to roll back all manner of regulations put in place by Obama before he left office. 
The Senate is expected to pass the National Rifle Association-backed measure soon and President Donald Trump is expected to sign it.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/politics/trump-financial-executive-actions/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwid3O61k_XRAhVL2WMKHb2_D6I4FBCnAgggMAM&usg=AFQjCNEKAAvFfxOztgIc0c7qH_fiLig51Q
Trump to take steps rolling back financial regulations
By Kevin Liptak, CNN White House ProducerUpdated 2:36 PM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump will begin work Friday dismantling the financial regulations enacted after the 2008 economic crisis, hours after the first major economic report of his administration is released.Trump's executive moves won't have an immediate effect on Wall Street oversight. But they're likely to draw sharp criticism from Democrats and reform proponents who say the regulations that the President is looking to scrap could prevent another meltdown.
In two executive actions, Trump plans to direct his administration to evaluate regulatory action taken by his predecessor, Barack Obama, with an eye toward eliminating what his advisers say are burdensome rules on financial services firms and consumers.
He'll also force the delay of an Obama-era rule that required retirement advisers to act in their clients' best interests.
The midday moves will come after the Labor Department releases jobs figures from January. Hiring rebounded sharply under Obama following the financial crisis, but Trump has previously questioned the accuracy of the monthly reports from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
He'll sign his actions following a planned meeting with US chief executives, including bosses at JPMorgan Chase, Blackstone, IBM, Tesla and General Motors. The CEO of Uber said Thursday he wouldn't participate in the meeting since he opposes Trump's executive order on refugees and immigration.
In his first order, Trump will issue a broad directive meant to garner input from the heads of federal regulatory agencies on areas for reform. The move won't make any immediate changes to the agencies or their policies; rather, it will solicit recommendations for changes to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform law that was enacted in 2010.
"Everything is going to be looked at," said a senior administration official, speaking anonymously to preview the order before it was signed.
The official conceded a complete gutting of the law would require Congress to act -- "This is not an attempt to undo Dodd-Frank" -- but identified areas where Trump could make unilateral changes, like placing his own directors at key regulatory bodies.
The official demurred if that meant Trump planned to fire the current head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a brainchild of Sen. Elizabeth Warren that's expected to be on Trump's chopping block.
Trump on Monday called Dodd-Frank as "disaster" and vowed to "do a big number on it."
A second action Friday will direct the Department of Labor to cease implementation of an Obama administration rule on retirement investment advisers, which is supposed to take effect in April. 
That measure, called the "Fiduciary Rule," required retirement advisers to always act in their clients' best interests. But the Trump administration official said the rule was a "complete mess" with a litany of unintended consequences.
The official said the rule was "protecting (consumers) from something they don't need protection from," arguing it limited options and proved expensive for asset management firms to implement.
The Labor Department will have 90 days to reevaluate the rule and report back. They'll have the final say on whether the rule is enacted.
Both moves are expected to draw the ire of consumer protection activists, who argue even Dodd-Frank didn't go far enough in reining in Wall Street following the financial meltdown in 2008.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/health/subway-menu-nutritionist-food-drayer/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwid3O61k_XRAhVL2WMKHb2_D6I4FBCnAggjMAQ&usg=AFQjCNEOnzCTGE_qmeWxP2BRUVdfLC-UpQ
Subway's best menu picks, by a nutritionist
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Lisa Drayer, CNNUpdated 9:46 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.This story is part of a series on finding the healthiest menu options at some of the most popular fast food restaurant chains. (CNN)So what's so special about Subway, you might ask? After all, a sandwich is a sandwich -- right? Well, yes and no.Get fit with Daily BurnTry a new workout every day30-day fitness trial, 50% off first monthSpartan Race obstacle training programSee the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.Lisa Drayer is a nutritionist, author and health journalist.Yes, you can choose from pre-designed sandwiches at the chain, including the typical turkey, ham and roast beef varieties. But what we really like about the sub stop is that any menu item can be customized to meet your diet preferences: breads, meats and cheeses, veggies and dressings. You can think of it as one big sandwich buffet -- that is, without having to worry about portion control.
Here's more food for thought: If you think of Subway solely as a sandwich chain, you might be surprised to learn that from the time the first store opened in 1965, salads have been on the menu. We're not talking about new culinary creations but simple adaptations. For example, a sub can quickly morph into a salad if you ask for the sandwich to be prepared as a salad. The ingredients are pretty much the same (except for the bread), just in different proportions (i.e. more veggies, including spinach, and olives). Chopped salads were introduced in 2012.
 
The same rule applies to breakfast:. If you want the egg whites and cheese from an egg and cheese breakfast sandwich to sit on top of a bed of leafy greens, all you have to do is ask your sandwich artist.
Also worth mentioning: More than 80% of Subway restaurants offer soup, though varieties can differ according to location.
Most of our sandwich picks come from Subway's Fresh Fit menu, which includes sandwiches that are low in saturated fat, are sensible in calories and have less sodium than some of the other sandwiches. 
When it comes to breads, the chain's nine-grain wheat bread and multigrain flatbread are richest in whole grains and fiber. The standard build for all sandwiches and salads contains five fresh veggies -- lettuce, tomato, cucumbers, peppers and onions -- but you are welcome to add or subtract toppings as you wish. 
Sandwich condiments such as light mayonnaise and mustard add flavor but will contribute small amounts of sodium.
Though most vegetables will not make a dent in your daily sodium budget, pickles do contribute 115 milligrams. Cheese contributes sodium, too: American cheese has the most, at 200 milligrams per serving. 
Salad dressings and sauces deliver more sodium than most condiments, but the oil and vinegar dressing is sodium-free.
To limit added sugars, pair your salad or sub with water or unsweetened tea instead of sugar-sweetened beverages.
Below are, by my estimation, the best Subway options if you're focused on healthy choices within the limits of the menu. We break it down by our picks for kids, athletes, drivers, vegetarians and vegans, as well as low-calorie, low-sugar, low-salt, gluten-free and low-carb options. (Note: All sandwiches are 6 inches long, unless otherwise noted.)
For kids
Our picks: Roast beef mini sandwich on nine-grain wheat bread; or Veggie Delite mini sandwich on nine-grain wheat bread with shredded Monterey cheddar; and apple slices and low-fat milk
At Subway, kids can enjoy the same sandwiches as grownups, but in smaller sizes. A "Fresh Fit for Kids Meal" includes a Fresh Fit mini sub, which is a 4-inch sandwich that is low in saturated fat and calories. 
Our top pick is the roast beef mini, as it's the most protein-rich of the four kids' sandwich options, and it's the lowest-sodium meat option. For a vegetarian kids option, choose the Veggie Delite sandwich with shredded Monterey cheddar, which has less than half the sodium of processed American cheese.
The kids meal comes with apple slices and a choice of low-fat, calcium-rich milk or fruit punch; we recommend the milk for kids' growing bones.
For vegetarians
Our picks: Veggie Delite sandwich on multigrain flatbread with shredded Monterey cheddar (toasted); or salad with egg whites, cheese, avocado and oil and vinegar dressing
Whether you're vegetarian or simply in the mood for a meatless meal, Subway will satisfy your needs. The chain offers a Veggie Delite sub, a combination of lettuce, tomatoes, green peppers, cucumbers and onions on bread. If that doesn't sound exciting, give it a tasty upgrade by ordering it with multigrain flatbread, which is rich in fiber and whole grains, and ask for it to be toasted with shredded Monterey cheddar.
You can also get a lighter, vegetarian version of a Cobb salad by ordering an egg white and cheese sandwich as a chopped salad. Add guacamole if it's available to boost heart-healthy fats, and top with oil and vinegar dressing.
For vegans
Our picks: Veggie Delite sandwich on Italian bread with vinaigrette; or black bean soup
Vegans who visit Subway can enjoy the Veggie Delite sandwich with vinaigrette dressing for a filling, fiber-rich meal. For vegans who avoid honey, we recommend the Veggie Delite sandwich on Italian bread; however, for those who include honey as part of a vegan diet, we recommend the nine-grain wheat bread, which is richer in whole grains. (Note: Sourdough and roasted garlic are also vegan breads, though not all chains carry them.) Vegans can choose from toppings including mustard, oil, vinegar, pickles, jalapenos and sweet onion sauce.
Another satisfying vegan option offered at some locations is the low-fat black bean soup, with 12 grams of protein and 15 grams of fiber. You can even combine the soup with the sandwich, depending on your appetite. Also worth noting: If you are near one of the 400 or so Subway locations that offer it, you can order a vegan vegetable patty sub, though its sodium count is on the higher side, at about 1,000 milligrams.
For calorie counters 
Our picks: Turkey breast salad; or Black Forest ham salad with honey mustard dressing; or turkey breast sandwich on nine-grain wheat bread with honey mustard sauce; and apple slices
We love that Subway can satisfy calorie counters with its wide assortment of salads, which can come chopped or unchopped, depending on your preference. For waistline watchers who find small portions a bit challenging, the salads offer volume: 2½ cups of veggies, including spinach, tomatoes, green peppers, red onions and cucumbers, for very few calories.
The turkey breast and Black Forest ham salads are lowest in calories, with only 110 calories each. You can even add honey mustard dressing without significantly boosting the calorie load (it has only 60 calories per serving). If you prefer a sandwich, turkey comes out on top again as the lowest-calorie non-vegetarian option on the menu; adding honey mustard sauce brings the total sandwich count to 310 calories.
Add apple slices to your salad for a sweet crunchy snack, and your total meal count is only 205 calories.
For the sugar-sensitive
Our picks: Turkey breast sandwich with Monterey cheddar cheese on toasted multigrain flatbread; or oven-roasted chicken salad; or tuna salad with oil and vinegar dressing
With the exception of sugary beverages and desserts, sugars are not a concern at Subway. Most of the chain's sandwiches and salads have less than 10% of calories from added sugar. Our top low-sugar pick is the turkey breast sandwich with cheddar cheese on toasted multigrain flatbread, which has only 5 grams of sugar. Other low-sugar options include the oven-roasted chicken salad and the chopped tuna salad, each with only 6 grams of sugar.
If you're watching sugars, you'll want to steer clear of the sweet onion dressing, which contributes 16 grams, or 4 teaspoons, of sugar per serving. Top either salad with sugar-free oil and vinegar dressing instead.
Additionally, pair your salad or sub with water or unsweetened tea instead of sugar-sweetened beverages. And try to tame your cravings for cookies: Just one chocolate chip cookie delivers 18 grams, or 4½ teaspoons, of sugar. 
For the salt-sensitive 
Our picks: Veggie Delite salad with oil and vinegar dressing; or Veggie Delite sandwich on nine-grain wheat bread with oil and vinegar dressing; or oven-roasted chicken salad with oil and vinegar dressing; and apple slices
As is typically the case, a meatless meal, such as Subway's Veggie Delite sandwich or the related salad with oil and vinegar dressing, will naturally be lower in sodium. However, there are other options for those looking to limit their salt intake. One we like, with fewer than 300 milligrams of sodium, is the oven-roasted chicken salad with oil and vinegar. You can add avocado if it's available, as it's essentially sodium-free.
However, we caution you to be careful with condiments such as ranch dressing and buffalo sauce (each deliver 400 milligrams of sodium), American cheese (it adds 200 milligrams) and pickles (115 milligrams). Pair your meal with apple slices for a small potassium boost; the mineral will help blunt sodium's effects on blood pressure.
For the gluten-sensitive
Our picks: Rotisserie-style chicken salad with vinaigrette; or black bean soup; or broccoli and cheddar soup
If you're avoiding gluten in your diet, Subway's salads are the way to go. The chopped salad with rotisserie-style chicken topped with Subway's own vinaigrette -- a blend of vinegar, oregano, garlic and pepper -- is one of our favorites. It's packed with vegetables, including folate-rich spinach, and provides 23 grams of lean protein.
Other options with no gluten-containing ingredients include the black bean and broccoli and cheddar soups, which deliver 12 and 5 grams of protein, respectively.
Also worth noting: Approximately 5% of Subway restaurants offer gluten-free bread, so you can ask for your sandwich to be made with it if your local chain offers it. (Note that even when gluten-free bread is available, sandwiches are not labeled "gluten-free" due to the risk of cross-contamination with products that include gluten in the store; an individual with celiac disease would have to be extra cautious.)
For the athlete
Our picks: Rotisserie-style chicken sandwich on nine-grain wheat bread with honey mustard sauce; or roast beef sandwich on nine-grain wheat bread with mustard; and Gatorade
Whether you favor weights, sprints or long cardio routines, Subway's rotisserie-style chicken sandwich can meet your workout needs. It offers 29 grams of protein and 45 grams of carbs to fuel and repair muscles. We also like the roast beef sandwich on nine-grain wheat bread, which is similar in terms of nutritional value.
Athletes with bigger appetites can order a footlong sandwich instead of 6 inches, if more calories and carbs are desired.
 Additionally, strength trainers can take advantage of the chain's "double meat option," which gives you two times the amount of protein in the meal. For example, doubling the amount of roast beef brings the protein count of the sandwich from 25 grams to 41 grams (the bread contributes some protein, too). The sodium count also increases significantly, though, so we recommend proceeding only if you can afford the extra milligrams.
Grab a Gatorade for a post-workout beverage to replenish electrolytes lost in sweat.
For the road warrior 
Our picks: Oven-roasted chicken sandwich on nine-grain wheat bread with honey mustard sauce; or turkey breast sandwich with Swiss cheese on toasted multigrain flatbread; and apple slices and Baked Lay's chips
Subway's sandwiches are great for grabbing on the go. We like the oven-roasted chicken sandwich with honey mustard sauce, which has 23 grams of protein and 5 grams of fiber -- a nutrient combo that will keep you sated on the road. If you're not in a rush, order a turkey sandwich with shredded cheddar, and ask for it to be toasted on multigrain flatbread.
For a snack during your travels, apples are still the healthiest option, though we understand if you want to grab some Baked Lay's, too.
For the carb-conscious
Our picks: Carved turkey sandwich without bread; or club with scooped-out bread; oil and vinegar dressing
Those cutting carbs have a few options at Subway: you can order a salad (though most dressings and veggies still contain carbs), order a sandwich sans bread or get your bread scooped. 
Keep in mind, the more you scoop, the more you save: A Subway club with scooped-out bread still has 39 grams of carbs (compared with 46 grams in the non-scooped version), a number based on the minimum amount of bread removed.
We would typically save the carved turkey sandwich for November, as it's higher in sodium than the other sandwiches. However, in addition to slashing 40 grams of carbs, omitting the bread brings the sodium count down to 620 milligrams from 890 milligrams. Olive oil and vinegar dressing adds flavor without any carbs.
For breakfast
Our picks: Egg whites with Swiss cheese, spinach and tomato on multigrain flatbread
If you have a hunch that breakfast at Subway consists of breakfast subs, well, you're correct. You won't find oatmeal or even yogurt on the morning menu. 
The point of differentiation for the chain's breakfast offerings comes down to the way you order your eggs (both eggs and egg whites are available), what type of bread you choose and whether you add cheese or meats to your morning sandwich.
We favor the egg white sandwich with Swiss cheese, spinach and tomato on multigrain flatbread, which is packed with protein, carbs and fiber to get your day off to an energizing start.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/01/us/milo-yiannopoulos-berkeley/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwid3O61k_XRAhVL2WMKHb2_D6I4FBCnAggmMAU&usg=AFQjCNEF0XnkME0E63iOFa-TJsL7jguG0A
Berkeley protests of Yiannopoulos caused $100,000 in damage
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Madison Park and Kyung Lah, CNNUpdated 8:33 PM ET, Thu February 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Berkeley, California (CNN)Protests that erupted at UC Berkeley ahead of a planned Wednesday appearance by right-wing commentator Milo Yiannopoulos caused $100,000 worth of damage to the campus, the school said Thursday.  Protests erupt at UC Berkeley over a scheduled speech by Breitbart writer #MiloYiannopoulos. (video by  @taka_the_brave)A video posted by CNN (@cnn) on Feb 1, 2017 at 6:56pm PSTMultiple dispersal orders have been given for the Milo protest. Please leave campus or avoid the area. @UCBerkeley #miloatcalIf U.C. Berkeley does not allow free speech and practices violence on innocent people with a different point of view - NO FEDERAL FUNDS?CNN's Jamiel Lynch and Stephanie Becker contributed to this report. The university blamed "150 masked agitators" for the unrest, saying they had come to campus to disturb an otherwise peaceful protest.
Two Berkeley College Republicans "were attacked while conducting an interview" on the campus on Thursday, UC Berkeley also said in a prepared statement. The attackers, who were not affiliated with the university, were taken into custody by UC Berkeley police.
Administrators decided to cancel the Wednesday event about two hours before the Breitbart editor's speech. UC Berkeley said it removed him from campus "amid the violence and destruction of property and out of concern for public safety." 
Black-clad protesters wearing masks threw commercial-grade fireworks and rocks at police. Some even hurled Molotov cocktails that ignited fires. They also smashed windows of the student union center on the Berkeley campus where the Yiannopoulos event was to be held. 
At least six people were injured. Some were attacked by the agitators -- who are a part of an anarchist group known as the "Black Bloc" that has been causing problems in Oakland for years, said Dan Mogulof, UC Berkeley spokesman. 
More than 1,500 protesters had gathered at Sproul Plaza, chanting and holding signs that read: "No safe space for racists" and "This is war." 
The violent protesters tore down metal barriers, set fires near the campus bookstore and damaged the construction site of a new dorm. One woman wearing a red Trump hat was pepper sprayed in the face while being interviewed by CNN affiliate KGO. She was able to respond that she was OK after the attack. 
As the scene spiraled out of control, university police warned protesters to disperse and issued a lockdown for campus buildings. 
"We condemn in the strongest possible terms the violence and unlawful behavior that was on display and deeply regret that those tactics will now overshadow the efforts to engage in legitimate and lawful protest against the performer's presence and perspectives," UC Berkeley said in a statement. 
"While Yiannopoulos' views, tactics and rhetoric are profoundly contrary to our own, we are bound by the Constitution, the law, our values and the campus's Principles of Community to enable free expression across the full spectrum of opinion and perspective," it stated. 
As police dispersed the crowd from campus, a remaining group of protesters moved into downtown Berkeley and smashed windows at several local banks.
No arrests were made throughout the night.
Yiannopoulos on college speaking tour
Yiannopoulos had been invited to speak by the Berkeley College Republicans. He has been on a college speaking tour and had planned to speak about cultural appropriation on Wednesday.
In a Facebook Live video, Yiannopoulos described what happened as "an expression of political violence."
"I'm just stunned that hundreds of people ... were so threatened by the idea that a conservative speaker might be persuasive, interesting, funny and might take some people with him, they have to shut it down at all costs."
President Donald Trump weighed in on Twitter, suggesting the possibility of cutting federal funds to the public university. 
"If U.C. Berkeley does not allow free speech and practices violence on innocent people with a different point of view -- NO FEDERAL FUNDS?" Trump tweeted Thursday morning. 
Later, Yiannopoulos posted Trump's tweet to Facebook and proclaimed himself "the catalyst for this change."
"American universities are on notice. The President is watching," he wrote. "The days you could silence conservative and libertarian voices on campus and still expect to collect their tax money are coming to an end."
Yiannopoulos trying to convince colleges hate speech is cool
But some protesters said the Yiannopoulos event wasn't a matter of free speech, because he espouses hate speech. 
UC Berkeley said it had prepared security measures following what had happened at Yiannopoulos' previous events. One of his planned speaking engagements at UC Davis was also canceled last month in response to protests.
"Ultimately, and unfortunately, however, it was impossible to maintain order given the level of threat, disruption and organized violence," UC Berkeley said in a statement.
Controversial speech
Most UC Berkeley students who spoke with CNN said they were relieved that Yiannopoulos wasn't able to speak, but this was not how they wanted to accomplish that goal. 
One student told CNN that he didn't agree with what happened.
"It's a sad irony in the fact that the Free Speech Movement was founded here and tonight, someone's free speech got shut down. It might have been hateful speech, but it's still his right to speak," said Shivam Patel, a freshmen who stood outside of Sproul Plaza. 
The Free Speech Movement started at UC Berkeley in 1964 after students protested en masse when administrators tried to restrict their political activities on campus. 
Patel said he supported peaceful protests, but disagreed with the way things turned out on Wednesday. 
"It allows people on the right to say, 'Look at all these liberal Berkeley snowflakes. They're intolerant of speech.' I don't think it's productive at all. It does nothing to help this country." 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/politics/haley-russia-un/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwid3O61k_XRAhVL2WMKHb2_D6I4FBCnAggpMAY&usg=AFQjCNG811VmIhH9Thrq5MUOXZqUGKgAmQ
UN Ambassador Haley hits Russia hard on Ukraine 
By Nicole Gaouette and Richard Roth, CNNUpdated 12:11 PM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)The US ambassador to the United Nations offered a strong condemnation of Russia in her first appearance at the UN Security Council on Thursday, calling on Moscow to de-escalate violence in eastern Ukraine and saying that US sanctions against Moscow would remain in place until it withdraws from Crimea.Смерть кожного солдата -- рубець в серці України. Капітан Андрій Кизило. 26 років. Загинув під Авдіївкою. Вдивіться в його очі! pic.twitter.com/3AwTnwmRhUGreat #UNSC debut speech by @NikkiHaley today. Fully agree that sanctions must remain until #Russia returns control of #Crimea to #Ukraine.CNN's Kevin Liptak contributed to this report. "The United States continues to condemn and call for an immediate end to the Russian occupation of Crimea," said Nikki Haley, President Donald Trump's envoy to the world body. "Crimea is a part of Ukraine. Our Crimea-related sanctions will remain in place until Russia returns control over the peninsula to Ukraine."
Haley was speaking at an emergency UN meeting about a sudden upsurge in violence in eastern Ukraine, where Russian-backed separatists have been fighting the Ukrainian army. Her remarks were notable for the stark difference between her rhetoric and Trump's. 
Sources told CNN Thursday evening that the White House was aware in advance of Haley's speech. A source told CNN's Dana Bash that Haley didn't get direction from the White House but she wasn't asked not do to it. Another source told CNN's Elise Labott the National Security Council signed off on the remarks.
The first source said Haley made clear in private conversations as well as during her confirmation hearings how she felt about hot spots like Russia, though her point of view clearly differs from some of what the President said during the campaign.
As a candidate, the President hinted he might recognize Russia's annexation of Crimea. In the weeks before and after his inauguration, Trump's refusal to condemn Russian hacking during the election and his attacks on the intelligence community for investigating those hacks raised questions about his ties to Moscow. 
Questions only deepened after CNN reported that the intelligence community was looking into reports that Moscow may have compromising financial and personal information about the President. Trump has insisted that he would simply like better relations with Moscow. 
At a news conference with British Prime Minister Theresa May last week, he said it was "too early" to discuss sanctions.
On Thursday, the Treasury Department slightly eased a sanction the Obama administration put in place against Russia's Federal Security Service, known as the FSB.
A top State Department official said the move was made as a technical fix to the sanctions that were put in place to avoid "unintended consequences" of US government business with Russia.
While Washington was taking that step, Haley was lobbing verbal grenades. "I consider it unfortunate that the occasion of my first appearance here is one in which I must condemn the aggressive actions of Russia," she said. "We do want to better our relations with Russia. However, the dire situation in eastern Ukraine is one that demands clear and strong condemnation of Russian actions."
"The sudden increase in fighting in eastern Ukraine has trapped thousands of civilians and destroyed vital infrastructure and the crisis is spreading, endangering many thousands more," Haley added. "This escalation of violence must stop."
At one point in the charged meeting, Ukraine's Ambassador to the UN, Volodymyr Yelchenko, held up a photo of a Ukraine serviceman who was killed days ago. Looking at the Russian ambassador, Yelchenko said, "You killed him."
While Haley's remarks echoed many speeches delivered by the Obama administration's UN ambassador, Russia's Ambassador to the UN Vitaly Churkin told reporters that he thinks "there is a change in tone" with the new US administration. He added that he wasn't surprised by Haley's speech.
Some analysts see the surge in fighting as a Russian test of US resolve or perhaps an attempt to send Ukraine a message that after years of Obama administration support, the Trump administration will be more friendly to Moscow than Kiev. 
Fighting between Russian-backed rebels from the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic and the Ukrainian army exploded a day after Trump had his first phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Saturday. Russia accuses Ukraine of starting the escalation. 
Churkin said that Ukraine was "desperately, frantically trying to achieve a military settlement to the conflict." He blamed Kiev for the recent escalation, saying it was meant to keep the issue "on the international agenda" and "at the same time suck in with their reckless confrontational policy newly elected heads of state."
The UK Ambassador to the UN, Matthew Rycroft, told the UN meeting that "we frequently hear from the Russian government, as we did today, that all the problems in eastern Ukraine are the consequence of actions by the Ukrainian government. This is simply not the case. It is an inversion of reality." 
He later tweeted, "Great #UNSC debut speech by @NikkiHaley today. Fully agree that sanctions must remain until #Russia returns control of #Crimea to #Ukraine."
 
Balazs Jarabik, a non-resident fellow at the Carnegie Endowment who studies Central and Eastern Europe, notes that the rebels used rockets that were in flagrant violation of the Minsk Agreement, a ceasefire pact meant to end the fighting. 
"Why did they violate it so visibly?" Jarabik asked. "I think there's merit to the speculation that the Russians wanted to show that Kiev doesn't have the backing it used to have from the US." 
And initially, the US response was seen as tepid at best. A January 31 statement from the State Department condemned the violence, but didn't mention Russia or contain the statement of support for Ukraine that was customary during the Obama administration. 
"There was panicking" in Ukraine after that statement, Jarabik said, speaking from Kiev. "There were Ukrainian pundits saying it's the end of US support -- because it had such a different tone than the Obama administration. The so-called unwavering support seemed gone. It was sending shock waves."
Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have long called for a more supportive approach to Ukraine. They often criticized the Obama administration for its refusal to provide Kiev with defensive weapons.
On Thursday, Republican Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida called again for the US to provide weapons. "Vladimir Putin's continued aggression against the people of Ukraine is outrageous, and further destabilization in the region will have profound negative consequences for us here in America," Rubio told CNN. 
He noted that Trump's new Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Secretary of Defense James Mattis both advocated during their confirmation hearings for providing Ukraine with weapons to defend its sovereign territory. 
"I hope President Trump will heed their advice," Rubio said. "We must stand with the people of Ukraine during this difficult hour and make clear to Putin that relations will not improve until Russia respects Ukraine's sovereignty."
Democratic Sen. Robert Menendez of New Jersey drew a link between Trump's mollifying approach to Russia and the aggression in Ukraine. "At the mere hint that President Trump would take a softer stance towards Russia, we have already seen pro-Russian forces emboldened and renew fighting" in eastern Ukraine, he told CNN. 
Menendez is part of a bipartisan group of senators who have introduced the Countering Russian Hostilities Act, which he said would hold Russia accountable for its international aggression and interference in the US election.
"I sincerely hope both the Trump administration and Congressional Republicans don't make the mistake of walking away from longstanding, responsible policies to counter Russian aggression," he said.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/entertainment/matthew-mcconaughey-trump/index.html&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwid3O61k_XRAhVL2WMKHb2_D6I4FBCnAggsMAc&usg=AFQjCNE5wvmLrHKh69uCHMrZzGVbLP2sRg
Matthew McConaughey: It's time to embrace Trump
By Lisa Respers France, CNNUpdated 12:13 PM ET, Thu February 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)If you ask Matthew McConaughey, it's time for the country to get "alright, alright, alright" with President Donald Trump.Matthew McConaughey said we need to "embrace Trump." Easy for u to say considering ur also a white guy w more money than god. Have a seatWell said @McConaughey regarding our POTUS @realDonaldTrump It's time to come together!.@McConaughey @realDonaldTrump is showing us he does not deserve a chance. When someone shows who he is better believe him.#matthewMcConaughey is a voice of reason & I'm so happy I can watch HIS movies.. haha.as I'm seriously #boycotting the unreasonable© 2017 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2017 Cable News Network. The Oscar-winning actor suggested as much in a recent interview with the BBC's Andrew Marr to promote his new film, "Gold."
Marr said it seems that a theme of the film is "small time, central redneck America sticking one up to the snotty East Coast elites, as it were."
He then noted that many actors and artists "dump on Trump" and asked McConaughey whether it's time to give Trump a break.
"Well, they don't have a choice now, he's our President," McConaughey said. "It's very dynamic and as divisive of an inauguration and time that we've ever had. At the same time, it's time for us to embrace and shake hands with this fact and be constructive with him over the next four years."
No matter how much people may have disagreed with candidate Trump, McConaughey said, it's now "time to think about how constructive can you be because he's our President for the next four years at least."
The star's remarks were hailed and criticized on social media.
It is unclear whether the interview was taped before or after Trump's issued his controversial travel ban.
McConaughey's wife, model Camila Alves, was born in Brazil and became a US citizen in 2015. 
CNN has reached out to reps for the actor for comment. 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/asia/north-korea-state-security-minister-fired/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwid3O61k_XRAhVL2WMKHb2_D6I4FBCnAggvMAg&usg=AFQjCNHq7zxMEbhevzlCD4s5rQ8Z4KnOag
North Korea fires head of prison camp system
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Brad Lendon, CNNUpdated 12:47 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has fired one of his top lieutenants, according to South Korea's Unification Ministry.CNN's James Griffiths and journalist Taehoon Lee contributed to this report.As Minister of State Security, Kim Won Hong oversaw the North Korean agency responsible for running the country's notorious prison camps, rooting out spies in North Korea and conducting counterespionage operations abroad.
Unification Ministry spokesman Jeong Joon-hee said Kim Won Hong was punished for "human rights abuses committed during interrogations at the State Security Department" among other things.
The security chief was one of seven North Korean officials sanctioned by the US Treasury Department on January 11 for human rights abuses.
He was removed from his position in the North Korean government around that time, the South Korean official said.
According to a US Treasury statement, Kim Won Hong directed and managed activities including "beatings, forced starvation, sexual assault, forced abortions, and infanticide" that took place in the system of prison camps.
The US Treasury order froze any assets of Kim Won Hong under US jurisdiction.
Although Pyongyang officially denies that the prison camps exist, multiple human rights groups have documented their ongoing operation via survivor testimony and satellite imagery.
Last November, a United Nations report said up to 120,000 men, women and children are imprisoned in the camps, known as "kwanliso" in Korean.
An analysis by Amnesty International in November concluded that Pyongyang "is continuing to maintain, and even invest, in these repressive facilities."
"These camps constitute the cornerstone of the country's large infrastructure dedicated to political repression and social control that enables widespread and systematic human rights abuses," Amnesty said in a statement.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/us/mosque-burns-synagogue-keys-trnd/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwid3O61k_XRAhVL2WMKHb2_D6I4FBCnAggyMAk&usg=AFQjCNENRRbdQjO30s6QfdeRaybgWIIJoA
Jews hand Muslims keys to synagogue after Texas mosque burns
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Doug Criss, CNNUpdated 10:17 AM ET, Thu February 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)The congregation of the Victoria Islamic Center in Texas was devastated. Its mosque was destroyed over the weekend in a fire, the cause of which is unknown.CNN's Jamiel Lynch contributed to this story.Then an act of kindness revived their spirits -- the leaders of the local Jewish congregation gave them the keys to their synagogue so they could continue to worship.
The leader of the mosque said he wasn't surprised by the gesture.
"I never doubted the support that we were going to get" after the fire, Dr. Shahid Hashmi, a surgeon and president of Victoria Islamic Center, told CNN. "We've always had a good relationship with the community here."
Hashmi said Dr. Gary Branfman -- a member of Temple B'nai Israel in Victoria, as well as a fellow surgeon and friend -- just came by his house and gave him the keys.
Support from around the world
And that wasn't the only offer of a temporary worship space that was extended. Hashmi said three local churches said his congregation could use their buildings. Also offered up was an empty office building, which the congregation used for three days before moving into a mobile home on the mosque property, Hashmi said.
"It's a beautiful community," he said.
Though Hashmi always knew his own east Texas community would support the mosque, he was stunned by the outpouring of support from people outside Victoria.
So far, a GoFundMe page set up to help raise money for the mosque's reconstruction has taken in more than $1 million.
That's on top of other donations the congregation has received from people in 90 different countries.
"We were surprised at the donations from around the world," Hashmi told CNN.
'Humanity at its best'
The Muslim community in Victoria dates back decades, Hashmi said, but the mosque was just 16 years old. Thanks to all of the financial contributions, he expects they'll be able to rebuild it in less than a year.
Hashmi said the congregants at the mosque are still in shock over the fire. Officials with the Texas State Fire Marshal's Office say no cause has been determined yet, and it may be weeks or months before can they figure out what happened, including whether the fire was deliberately set.
But the love that has grown from tragedy is making all the difference.
"It's given us a sense of hope," Omar Rachid, a member of the Muslim congregation, told CNN. "It's humanity at its best."
