http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/25/africa/mogadishu-somalia-blast/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjq6d6wvvXRAhWMYCYKHQFyAPs4ggEQpwIIFTAA&usg=AFQjCNHHn_yjlru2gce4Z-tEySEnGbBFWg
Mogadishu attack: At least 21 killed after explosion outside hotel
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Omar Nor, CNNUpdated 12:07 PM ET, Wed January 25, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Mogadishu, Somalia (CNN)Extremist group Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for two explosions Wednesday that police say killed at least 21 people and rocked the Somali capital.CNN's Julia Jones contributed to this report.At least 50 people were injured in the attack, said Capt. Abukar Osman with the Somali Police Force. Among the injured are seven journalists, according to Hussein Ali, an official of Mogadishu's ambulance services.
Four Al-Shabaab militants involved in the attack also died, Osman said. 
Attackers detonated a truck bomb outside the gates of the Dayah Hotel -- which is near the country's Parliament building and popular with lawmakers and government officials -- before storming inside, Somali police Maj. Ahmed Ibrahim told CNN.
A second truck exploded nearby 15 minutes later, Ibrahim said. 
As of mid-evening, the gunfire had stopped and security forces were able to retake control of the hotel, Osman said. 
Ali Hajji, the head nurse at the nearby Hayad hospital, said the death toll is likely to rise.
Al-Shabaab, an al Qaeda-linked terror group that seeks to turn the country into a fundamentalist Islamic state, has carried out repeated attacks against the government and military targets.
One of the world's poorest countries, Somalia descended into civil war after dictator Siad Barre's ouster in 1991. 
Rival clan leaders and extremist groups such as Al-Shabaab took advantage of the power vacuum. The groups subsequently grew in size and strength.
Al-Shabaab has seen its power wane in recent years, thanks in part to an African Union coalition dedicated to peacekeeping in the country. 
But Mogadishu is subject to attacks on a frequent basis. Most recently, a car bomb killed 20 people in December.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/17/politics/trump-administration-approval-inauguration/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjq6d6wvvXRAhWMYCYKHQFyAPs4ggEQpwIIGDAB&usg=AFQjCNE3S4tvLLdTtIXgmnFcxpajbkwenA
CNN/ORC Poll: Confidence drops in Trump transition
By Jennifer Agiesta, CNN Polling DirectorUpdated 9:39 AM ET, Tue January 17, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)Donald Trump will become president Friday with an approval rating of just 40%, according to a new CNN/ORC Poll, the lowest of any recent president and 44 points below that of President Barack Obama, the 44th president.The same people who did the phony election polls, and were so wrong, are now doing approval rating polls. They are rigged just like before.Following a tumultuous transition period, approval ratings for Trump's handling of the transition are more than 20 points below those for any of his three most recent predecessors. Obama took the oath in 2009 with an 84% approval rating, 67% approved of Clinton's transition as of late December 1992 and 61% approved of George W. Bush's transition just before he took office in January 2001.
The complete CNN/ORC poll results
Trump's wobbly handling of the presidential transition has left most Americans with growing doubts that the President-elect will be able to handle the job. About 53% say Trump's statements and actions since Election Day have made them less confident in his ability to handle the presidency, and the public is split evenly on whether Trump will be a good or poor president (48% on each side).
The President-elect dismissed the poll findings on Twitter: "The same people who did the phony election polls, and were so wrong, are now doing approval rating polls. They are rigged just like before."
Rep. Sean Duffy, a Trump supporter, said the President-elect's ongoing battle with the media has hurt his image.
"What's happening here is the public fight that Mr. Trump is having with CNN and other media groups has taken some skin off his poll numbers and it's gone down," he told CNN's Chris Cuomo Tuesday on "New Day."
Across all three of these measures, Americans' impressions of Trump have worsened since November. In that time, disapproval of his handling of the transition has climbed seven points to 52%, the percentage who think he'll do a good job has dropped five points, and the share saying they have lost confidence in Trump's ability to be president grew 10 points.
Trump's favorability rating, a measure often seen as a read on a public figure's personality rather than the job he or she is doing, has taken less of a hit, decreasing by just 3 points to 44%. That change falls within the poll's margin of sampling error and is not statistically significant.
Despite these declines, many Americans remain confident that Trump will achieve several signature campaign promises, with most saying it's at least somewhat likely that he will impose tariffs on companies that manufacture goods in Mexico (71%), renegotiate NAFTA (61%) and create good-paying jobs in economically challenged areas (61%). 
About half think Trump will be able to simplify the tax code (50%) or protect sensitive electronic information from theft by foreign governments (48%). Fewer, 44%, say it's likely that Trump will be able to build a wall along the border with Mexico, and just 29% believe he will be able to get Mexico to reimburse the United States for the construction of the wall. About 4-in-10 think the President-elect will be able to defeat ISIS, down from 50% who said so in November.
More broadly, less than half say Trump's priorities for the country reflect their own (46% say so), and the country is almost evenly divided on whether the policies he's proposed will move the country in the right direction or the wrong one (48% right direction, 49% wrong direction).
The poll suggests the deep political divisions that drove the 2016 presidential campaign -- between men and women, whites and racial minorities, those holding college degrees and those without and rural residents and those in more urban areas -- continue unabated as Inauguration Day approaches. 
Trump's approval rating for handling the transition is almost 30 points higher among rural residents than it is among urbanites, nearly 20 points higher among men than women and among whites than non-whites, and 13 points higher among whites without degrees than among those who completed college.
The incoming vice president, Mike Pence, holds a narrowly net-positive favorability rating, 40% favorable to 37% unfavorable. Republicans rate Pence slightly lower than his new boss, 75% have a favorable view of the VP-to-be while 89% have a positive take on Trump. Among Democrats, however, Pence earns higher marks than Trump, 16% see him favorably vs. 9% who say so about Trump.
Opinions on Melania Trump are mixed, with a sizable share still unsure how they feel about the incoming first lady (36% favorable, 35% unfavorable, 28% unsure). And after a campaign in which she largely remained off the trail, most say they expect her to take on a mostly private role as first lady rather than a public one. About two-thirds (67%) say they see her remaining more in the background and focusing on her role as a mother and wife than being an advocate for issues and causes and hosting White House functions.
Trump's daughter, Ivanka, who is moving to Washington, heads into her role in the first family with more goodwill than her father or the future first lady. Overall, 44% have a favorable impression of her, 33% unfavorable, with 23% saying they're unsure.
The CNN/ORC Poll was conducted by telephone January 12-15 among a random national sample of 1,000 adults. Results for the full sample have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points; it is higher for subgroups.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/26/politics/sanctuary-cities-bill-de-blasio-trump-court/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjq6d6wvvXRAhWMYCYKHQFyAPs4ggEQpwIIGzAC&usg=AFQjCNFWmU5L-pva0T786TiRFYZg6nbgdA
NYC Mayor: 'We will go to court immediately' if funding halted over 'sanctuary city' executive order
By Eugene Scott, CNNUpdated 6:26 AM ET, Fri January 27, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said his city will use the courts to fight President Donald Trump's executive order to block federal funding going to "sanctuary cities," following executive action Trump announced Wednesday."We think it's very susceptible to legal challenge," he told CNN's Alisyn Camerota Thursday on "New Day." "If they make an attempt to pull that money, it will be from NYPD, from security funding to fight terrorism." 
"If an attempt is made to do that, we will go to court immediately for an injunction to stop it," de Blasio added. "We believe the executive order is vague and in some ways contradictory."What are sanctuary cities, and can they be defunded?
Trump signed Wednesday an executive order that he hopes will crack down and strip funding from "sanctuary cities," a term used for jurisdictions with policies that limit cooperation between or involvement with federal immigration enforcement actions.
The concept of sanctuary cities apparently originated in churches in the 1980s that were providing sanctuary to Central Americans fleeing violence in their home countries despite the federal government being reluctant to grant them refugee status. 
Sanctuary cities became more popular in cities with more diverse communities to counter what leaders considered extreme federal immigration policies, especially against those who were arrested for minor, non-violent crimes.
If enforced, the order will "strip federal grant money from the sanctuary states and cities that harbor illegal immigrants," said White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer.
The order states that these cities will be "not eligible" for federal grants and orders the Office of Management and Budget to compile federal grant money presently going to those jurisdictions. 
De Blasio is among several high-profile mayors protesting the move, calling it a national security disaster.
"It's going to make cities less safe. That is the bottom line," he said. 
The NYPD has spent decades building relationships with immigrant communities, de Blasio said, and if undocumented people fear deportation they will not come forward to report suspected criminal activity, including terrorism.
"This is the kind of thing that will destroy that progress and make it impossible for the police to keep cities safe," he said. 
The mayor also spoke of the need for Congress to provide New York City federal funds for securing the first family. 
"It's put a huge strain on the NYPD to protect not only the First Family and the staff that's been working at Trump Tower but Trump Tower itself, which is a very centrally located and very vulnerable building," De Blasio said. "It's costing us about half a million dollars a day to secure a building that is exposed on."
"We're going to keep doing that, it's the right thing to do. But we do expect the Congress to reimburse the people of New York City and the NYPD so we can continue to do the work of safety all over this city," he said. 
Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said Thursday that keeping funding from sanctuary cities is not "the right approach" to deal with national security.
"I don't think that taking away city funding - our tax dollars that we should be able to determine how we spend locally - is the right approach any more than I think as a father that dividing families is the right approach," he said on CNN's "At this Hour."
The Democrat acknowledged that the immigration system was broken but expressed concern about straining the relationship between law enforcement and immigrants.  
"We want federal law enforcement officials to do their job with federal laws, but we don't enforce tax laws. We don't enforce mail fraud. And I don't want to take my cops off of that important work because of an ideological wish of anybody in the White House," he said. 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/12/health/goat-yoga-oregon-trnd/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjq6d6wvvXRAhWMYCYKHQFyAPs4ggEQpwIIHjAD&usg=AFQjCNFbe8Rw7SAFz0mPfnJFbQ_2yaOx3g
'Goat yoga' is a thing - and hundreds are lining up for it
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By AJ Willingham, CNNUpdated 11:08 AM ET, Thu January 12, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)It's actually a little hard to believe we, as both a goat- and yoga-loving society, have slept on this concept for so long. Leave it to Lainey Morse of Albany, Oregon to realize something as glorious as goat yoga. Her goat yoga classes have become so popular, there's a 1,200-person waiting list that's growing by the day. 
The classes are held at Morse's scenic Oregon farm, where the goats have open access to the guests during their practice. Snuggles are not uncommon, and neither is the occasional upward goat on a downward dog. 
It's a perfect combination, Morse says. 
"Goats are perfect for the yoga practice because it's not only combining nature and animals, it's combining yoga, and they all go together so well." 
How goat yoga got started 
Morse owns a small farm in a picturesque section of western Oregon. The farm is called "No Regrets," which is fitting since Morse moved there on a whim from Phoenix, Arizona and hasn't looked back since. 
She also owns eight goats because, well, she's always wanted to own goats and that is a dream that should not be deferred. 
One day, during a child's birthday party she hosted on the farm as part of a charity auction, a mother who taught yoga approached her with an interesting suggestion.
"The woman said, 'You should really have a yoga class out here," Morse said. "I said okay, but the goats have to join in."
It didn't take much time for the concept to catch fire. 
A goat for the soul 
Even now, as sessions fill up and the waitlist grows by dozens -- or hundreds -- every day, Morse marvels at how much people are connecting to her animals. 
"The most fun part for me is watching people's faces when a little goat comes up to them while they're doing a yoga pose. It's a distraction, but it's a happy distraction." 
She says people have come from states away, and for many, there's more to their journey than just curiosity or a yen for quirky concepts. 
"It may sound silly, but goat yoga is really helping people," Morse says. "People come in that have anxiety, depression; they're recovering from cancer or illness." Morse also uses her goats in animal assisted therapy for people that suffer from depression or disabilities. 
"It's not curing diseases, but it's helping people cope with whatever they're going through."
Morse feels this on a personal level. About a year and a half ago, she was diagnosed with an autoimmune disorder and was going through a tough time in her personal life. 
"I would come home every day and spend time with my goats, and it was so therapeutic for me," she says. "It's hard to be sad and depressed when there's baby goats jumping on you."
Truer words have never been spoken. 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/12/us/arizona-good-samaritan-kills-man-beating-trooper/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjq6d6wvvXRAhWMYCYKHQFyAPs4ggEQpwIIITAE&usg=AFQjCNGiLjBDsR4sa2AbE8HgMg6cIOQccQ
Motorist with gun kills man beating wounded Arizona trooper
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Steve Almasy and Samira Said, CNNUpdated 8:28 AM ET, Sat January 14, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)An Arizona trooper who had been shot and was being beaten by a man with a pistol was saved Thursday by a motorist who killed his attacker, authorities said.Thanks for the thoughts and prayers this morning for our Trooper that was shot. Looks like he will be okay after some recovery @Arizona_DPSCNN's Keith Allen contributed to this report. The man who came upon the scene warned the suspect to stop striking the officer, but the assailant continued, said Capt. Damon Cecil, a spokesman for the Arizona Department of Public Safety. 
The good Samaritan got a gun from his car and shot the suspect, who died at the scene. 
The trooper, a 27-year veteran, was shot in the chest and shoulder. He is in serious and stable condition, Cecil said.
The trooper was identified Friday as Ed Andersson.
Col. Frank Milstead, director of the Public Safety Department, said he would like to thank the man who stepped in. "I don't know that my trooper would be alive today without his assistance," he said, according to CNN affiliate KNXV-TV in Phoenix.
Unusual circumstances
Public safety spokesman Bart Graves said the incident began with the trooper responding to report of shots fired from the median of an unlit, rural section of Interstate 10 near Tonopah. Andersson came across a vehicle that had rolled over and got out to investigate. While Andersson was setting flares, the suspect shot him.
It was not clear where the suspect was when the officer pulled up.
Milstead said at some point the suspect started beating Andersson, who was unable to use his right arm to defend himself. That's when the motorist pulled up and opened fire on the suspect.
"It's fairly rare" that citizens who come to the aid of law enforcement officers use deadly force, Cecil said.
Another motorist who stopped used the trooper's portable radio to call in the shooting. 
The conversation between that driver and the dispatcher was very businesslike, Cecil said.
"Hello. Officer down, officer down outside Tonopah. Come in, please," the man says, according to audio archived on Broadcastify, which streams radio communications between emergency responders. "He's in real bad shape. Please send air support, helicopter, please." 
He tells the dispatcher there are two other people who are down in an "unknown condition." 
Cecil praised the motorists who stopped to help, saying, "They were calm, determined."
A woman who was ejected from the vehicle died at a hospital, authorities said.
Authorities didn't release the names of the people involved in the incident, which occurred after 4 a.m. near mile marker 89, west of Tonopah. That city is about 50 miles west of Phoenix.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/19/politics/donald-trump-day-one-executive-orders-signing/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjq6d6wvvXRAhWMYCYKHQFyAPs4ggEQpwIIJDAF&usg=AFQjCNH5_GE0Hbpdr2MLh-pjm1F10E8FLw
Day One: Trump says he will sign 'very meaningful' documents amid talk of executive orders
By Jeremy Diamond, Jeff Zeleny and Ariane de Vogue, CNNUpdated 1:57 PM ET, Fri January 20, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)President-elect Donald Trump is ready to "get the show going." Everything you need to know Will it rain on Trump's parade?CNN's Jim Acosta, Deirdre Walsh, MJ Lee and Dana Bash contributed to this report.Less than 24 hours before he is inaugurated as the 45th President of the United States, Trump told supporters at a luncheon at his Washington hotel Thursday that he is preparing to use the presidential pen to sign some "very meaningful" documents. 
"We will be signing some papers that will be very meaningful tomorrow right after the speech to get the show going," Trump said, according to cell phone video of his remarks during a closed press portion of the luncheon obtained by CNN.
The remarks came hours after the President-elect's incoming White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said Trump is planning to sign a series of executive orders beginning Friday, though Spicer said Trump is "still working through which ones he wants to deal with tomorrow versus Monday or Tuesday."
"The President-elect is continuing to get briefed on some of the orders he wants to do and the sequencing thereof," Spicer said. "I think you'll see some activity on both tomorrow, over the weekend and then Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday." 
Trump aides have said that Trump will sign ceremonial and logistical executive orders on Friday, but have also left the door open to more policy-oriented actions and announcements in Trump's first 12 hours in office.
Advisers are preparing for announcements on a variety of fronts -- Friday, into the weekend and early next week -- whenever Trump gives the signal. Obamacare, the fight against ISIS, immigration and a lobbying ban are high on the list of early executive orders, Spicer said Thursday morning.
A senior GOP Hill aide said lawmakers anticipate that Trump will roll out multiple executive orders related to Obamacare. But the stresses they have not yet been briefed or given any heads-up about what is coming.
The President-elect had previously suggested that the work of his administration will begin in earnest on Monday -- and not before.
"Day one -- which I will consider to be Monday as opposed to Friday or Saturday, right? I mean, my day one is going to be Monday because I don't want to be signing and get it mixed up with lots of celebration," Trump said in an interview with the UK's Times of London and Germany's Bild newspapers.
Trump's advisers have sought to dispel that notion, with Spicer insisting repeatedly that Trump and his administration will hit the ground running on Friday after Trump is inaugurated at noon and work through the weekend.
Executive action
The moment Trump is sworn into office, some of his aides will start moving into the White House, Trump transition officials told CNN. Some of his advisers will even watch Trump deliver his inaugural address from inside the West Wing.
The timing of executive orders is likely to be fluid.
One adviser said executive orders or White House announcements could be put out in order to "change the conversation," in case anti-Trump protests or other rumblings steer attention away from Trump.
Agency officials are likely to be no more informed of any executive actions as most Americans until they hit TV screens and news sites.
One current administration official said Trump transition officials have not engaged with the Department of Health and Human Services about what heath care-related executive orders might fall.
"I don't know what we're rolling out on Monday. Makes me a little nervous," the official, who has been through multiple transitions, said.
Trump on the campaign trail vowed a flurry of action on his first day as president, including a pledge to "cancel immediately all illegal and overreaching executive orders."
Trump also vowed he would impose a "moratorium on new agency regulations" across the federal government.
During the campaign, the Republican frequently boasted that while he did not like Obama's executive orders, he would at least have the power to undo them as president.
"If I get elected, many of those executive orders that he signed, the first day, they're going to be unsigned," Trump said in an interview with NBC's "Meet the Press" last January.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/12/us/space-needle-drone-crash/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjq6d6wvvXRAhWMYCYKHQFyAPs4ggEQpwIIJzAG&usg=AFQjCNE19BUeEfEA4nW-3BnBfX0RRYfORg
Charges possible in Space Needle drone crash
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Paul P. Murphy, CNNUpdated 5:20 PM ET, Thu January 12, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)The city of Seattle could file charges against a drone owner after the device crashed on top Seattle's iconic Space Needle.CNN's Donie O'Sullivan contributed to this reportSeattle police continue to investigate the incident, but a source close to the investigation confirms authorities identified the owner through the drone's serial number.   
The drone crashed on top of the Space Needle on New Year's Eve, but it was turned over to police on January 10. Police tell CNN that Space Needle management went to the Federal Aviation Administration to report the incident, but were informed they first needed to make a report with local authorities.  
The FAA said the incident is under investigation.
The city attorney's office tells CNN while the city does not have any drone ordinances, it could charge the owner with reckless endangerment.
That charge, a gross misdemeanor, carries a penalty of up to 364 days in jail and up to a $5,000 fine. 
In October 2015, the city of Seattle charged a man with reckless endangerment for allegedly losing control of his drone at the city's gay pride parade.  As that drone fell, it crashed into a building and then hit a woman, knocking her unconscious. That case is currently under trial.
Video given to CNN by Space Needle management, and taken from the device, shows the drone hovering around the observation deck before it careens onto a platform near the bottom of a holiday light display. A few people were working on the platform at the time.
The building, which tops out at 605 feet with the spire, was not damaged.
"It looks like the drone tractor beam we installed on the Space Needle is working," said Space Needle CEO Ron Sevart in a statement to CNN. "This is the third time we've recovered a drone on our property."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/10/politics/donald-trump-intelligence-report-russia/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjq6d6wvvXRAhWMYCYKHQFyAPs4ggEQpwIIKjAH&usg=AFQjCNHifCTCPPkr7GNgshiOauvl2C3GBg
Intel chiefs presented Trump with claims of Russian efforts to compromise him
By Evan Perez, Jim Sciutto, Jake Tapper and Carl Bernstein, CNNUpdated 5:26 PM ET, Thu January 12, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.This story has been updated to include new information. (CNN)Classified documents presented last week to President Obama and President-elect Trump included allegations that Russian operatives claim to have compromising personal and financial information about Mr. Trump, multiple US officials with direct knowledge of the briefings tell CNN. The allegations were presented in a two-page synopsis that was appended to a report on Russian interference in the 2016 election.  The allegations came, in part, from memos compiled by a former British intelligence operative, whose past work US intelligence officials consider credible.  The FBI is investigating the credibility and accuracy of these allegations, which are based primarily on information from Russian sources, but has not confirmed many essential details in the memos about Mr. Trump.
The classified briefings last week were presented by four of the senior-most US intelligence chiefs -- Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, FBI Director James Comey, CIA Director John Brennan, and NSA Director Admiral Mike Rogers.
One reason the nation's intelligence chiefs took the extraordinary step of including the synopsis in the briefing documents was to make the President-elect aware that such allegations involving him are circulating among intelligence agencies, senior members of Congress and other government officials in Washington, multiple sources tell CNN.
These senior intelligence officials also included the synopsis to demonstrate that Russia had compiled information potentially harmful to both political parties, but only released information damaging to Hillary Clinton and Democrats.  This synopsis was not an official part of the report from the intelligence community case about Russian hacks, but some officials said it augmented the evidence that Moscow intended to harm Clinton's candidacy and help Trump's, several officials with knowledge of the briefings tell CNN.
The two-page synopsis also included allegations that there was a continuing exchange of information during the campaign between Trump surrogates and intermediaries for the Russian government, according to two national security officials. 
Sources tell CNN that these same allegations about communications between the Trump campaign and the Russians, mentioned in classified briefings for congressional leaders last year, prompted then-Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid to send a letter to FBI Director Comey in October, in which he wrote, "It has become clear that you possess explosive information about close ties and coordination between Donald Trump, his top advisors, and the Russian government -- a foreign interest openly hostile to the United States." 
CNN has confirmed that the synopsis was included in the documents that were presented to Mr. Trump but cannot confirm if it was discussed in his meeting with the intelligence chiefs. 
The Trump transition team declined repeated requests for comment. 
Appearing on Late Night with Seth Meyers, Kellyanne Conway, a senior Trump adviser, dismissed the memos, as unverified and untrue. 
CNN has reviewed a 35-page compilation of the memos, from which the two-page synopsis was drawn. The memos have since been published by Buzzfeed. The memos originated as opposition research, first commissioned by anti-Trump Republicans, and later by Democrats.  At this point, CNN is not reporting on details of the memos, as it has not independently corroborated the specific allegations. But, in preparing this story, CNN has spoken to multiple high ranking intelligence, administration, congressional and law enforcement officials, as well as foreign officials and others in the private sector with direct knowledge of the memos.
Russia denies having "Kompromat" on Donald Tump
Some of the memos were circulating as far back as last summer.  What has changed since then is that US intelligence agencies have now checked out the former British intelligence operative and his vast network throughout Europe and find him and his sources to be credible enough to include some of the information in the presentations to the President and President-elect a few days ago.
On the same day that the President-elect was briefed by the intelligence community, the top four Congressional leaders, and chairmen and ranking members of the  House and Senate intelligence committees -- the so-called "Gang of Eight" --  were also provided a summary of the memos regarding Mr. Trump, according to law enforcement, intelligence and administration sources. 
The two-page summary was written without the detailed specifics and information about sources and methods included in the memos by the former British intelligence official. That said, the synopsis was considered so sensitive it was not included in the classified report about Russian hacking that was more widely distributed, but rather in an annex only shared at the most senior levels of the government:  President Obama, the President-elect, and the eight Congressional leaders.
CNN has also learned that on December 9, Senator John McCain gave a full copy of the memos -- dated from June through December, 2016 -- to FBI Director James Comey.  McCain became aware of the memos from a former British diplomat who had been posted in Moscow.  But the FBI had already been given a set of the memos compiled up to August 2016, when the former MI6 agent presented them to an FBI official in Rome, according to national security officials. 
The raw memos on which the synopsis is based were prepared by the former MI6 agent, who was posted in Russia in the 1990s and now runs a private intelligence gathering firm.  His investigations related to Mr. Trump were initially funded by groups and donors supporting Republican opponents of Mr. Trump during the GOP primaries, multiple sources confirmed to CNN.  Those sources also said that once Mr. Trump became the nominee, further investigation was funded by groups and donors supporting Hillary Clinton.  
Spokespeople for the FBI and the Director of National Intelligence declined to comment. Officials who spoke to CNN declined to do so on the record given the classified nature of the material.  
Some of the allegations were first reported publicly in Mother Jones one week before the election.
One high level administration official told CNN, "I have a sense the outgoing administration and intelligence community is setting down the pieces so this must be investigated seriously and run down. I think [the] concern was to be sure that whatever information was out there is put into the system so it is evaluated as it should be and acted upon as necessary."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/23/politics/trans-pacific-partnership-trade-deal-withdrawal-trumps-first-executive-action-monday-sources-say/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjq6d6wvvXRAhWMYCYKHQFyAPs4ggEQpwIILTAI&usg=AFQjCNHOk4Uw42Ptq8k-mWr1x_DSP42tFQ
Trump signs order withdrawing from TPP, reinstate 'Mexico City policy' on abortion
By Jeremy Diamond and Dana Bash, CNNUpdated 9:45 AM ET, Tue January 24, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump on Monday will start to unravel the behemoth trade deal he inherited from his predecessor, as he signed an executive action to withdraw from the negotiating process of the Trans-Pacific Partnership.Trump's first executive actionTPP vs RCEP: Trade deals explainedCNN's Jeff Zeleny contributed to this report.That executive action sends signals to Democrats and leaders in foreign capitals around the world that Trump's rhetoric on trade during the campaign is turning into action. Trump vowed during the campaign to withdraw the US from the Pacific trade deal, commonly known as TPP, which he argued was harmful to American workers and manufacturing.
The TPP was negotiated under former President Barack Obama, but never ratified by Congress, so withdrawing from it will not have an immediate, real effect on US economic policies, although it does signal a new and very different US outlook on trade under Trump.
The other executive actions signed Monday included reinstating the Mexico City abortion rules and instituting a hiring freeze for federal agencies.
 RELATED: Obama pushes trade in Asia, but has 2016 killed the TPP?
Press feuds and protests
Trump's action comes as the President is looking to change the conversation after a rocky first weekend at the White House, during which, he and his officials feuded with the press and his presidency was greeted with massive protests in the nation's capital and in large cities across the US.
The executive action was just one part of the Trump administration's efforts to focus attention on its plans to radically reshape US trade policies, making good on a central premise of Trump's campaign and its economic nationalist underbelly.
Trump on Monday also met with union leaders and blue-collar workers several hours after signing the executive action and had a separate meeting with business leaders. 
As the Republican nominee, Trump railed against free trade agreements he argued were lopsided against the US and vowed to implement more protectionist trade policies as president, rallying voters to the polls with his "America First" slogan.
Trump has also threatened to impose trade tariffs as a way to revive American manufacturing and compel US companies not to take their manufacturing operations abroad.
New agenda
Obama's administration worked with the 11 countries that became signatories for more than two years to formulate the massive free trade deal that was set to reshape commerce throughout the Pacific Rim, triggering movement among multinational companies in the region at the same time. Trump's election swiftly dealt a death knell -- one formalized on Monday -- to the deal, sending shockwaves in Asian capitals that had pinned their economic hopes on the deal.
Trump's decision to withdraw the US from TPP is also a first step in the administration's efforts to amass a governing coalition to push the new President's agenda, one that includes the blue-collar workers who defected from Democrats and flocked to Trump's candidacy in November. 
The move could also put many Democrats -- particularly those who opposed the trade deal -- in a tricky position as they look to hold on to union support, a key constituency in their political coalition.
Obama struggled to sell many Democrats on the trade deal, in particular because of concerns about how the trade deal would impact American manufacturers and the US workers in that industry.
Even Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee who pushed the TPP deal as secretary of state, backed off her support for the deal during the campaign amid pressure from the left.
Democrats with heavy union worker constituencies will either need to get on board with Trump's protectionist trade policies or risk losing reelection. 
Republican leaders, many of whom supported the TPP trade deal and free trade more broadly, will also be pressed to react Monday -- reactions that could show daylight between top Republicans on Capitol Hill and the White House on a top policy issue.
Trump has said that he also plans to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, a free trade deal joining the US, Mexico and Canada.
This story has been updated.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/23/architecture/2017-most-expensive-cities-hong-kong/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjq6d6wvvXRAhWMYCYKHQFyAPs4ggEQpwIIMDAJ&usg=AFQjCNGf3muex3UZHJLzIvdfQaoYe8hj8w
The least affordable places to live in 2017 are...
By Kate Springer, CNNUpdated 6:10 AM ET, Tue January 24, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)They may be in opposite corners of the globe, but Hong Kong, Sydney and Vancouver have one thing in common.Sydney's housing prices shot up because foreign investors are buying trophy assets, in places like BondiMark Elliott, associate director of International Residential Property Services at Jones Lang LaSalleThey're the top three most unaffordable housing markets in the world, according to the 13th Annual Demographia International Housing Affordability Survey: 2017, published today.
Hong Kong has topped the list for the past seven years -- since its first appearance in the survey.
Subdivided flats smaller than 100 square feet (9 square meters) can rent for $385 in the Asian city.
"Hong Kong is a small island with 7 million people ... and you have 1.5 billion across the border (in mainland China) who would like to invest," Mark Elliott, associate director of International Residential Property Services at Jones Lang LaSalle, tells CNN.
"The government is releasing more and more land, but ... they will have to be more creative about making sites available, at affordable levels, to keep the market where it is."
How the survey works
The Demographia report scores housing markets using the "median multiple" principle, which takes median house price divided by gross annual median household income to calculate affordability. This method has been recommended by the World Bank and the United Nations.
For instance, if the median house price in London is £440,000 and the median household income is £51,800, the housing market score would be 8.5.
A total of 406 urban markets were analyzed in nine countries -- Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, United Kingdom, and the United States -- using data from the third quarter of 2016.
Hong Kong clocked an 18.1 median multiple score, down from a record-setting 19 points the year before -- Sydney scored 12.2 (the same as last year) and Vancouver 11.8. 
Other markets in the top 10 included San Jose in the United States (9.6), Honolulu in Hawaii (9.4), and Bournemouth and Dorset in the United Kingdom (8.9).
In Los Angeles (9.3) house prices rose the equivalent of 14 months in household income in only 12 months, the report said.
Australia's rising prices
When comparing nations, Hong Kong -- a Special Administrative Region of China -- topped the charts again, with a score (18.1) three times that of New Zealand, in second place at 5.9.
Australia is now the third most expensive nation in which to buy, with a median multiple score of 5.5. Prices there have risen dramatically since the 1980s, when -- by Demographia's calculations -- all its major markets, with the exception of Sydney, were in the affordable housing level.
This year, all but seven of Australia's 54 markets in the survey are ranked as either "seriously unaffordable" or "severely unaffordable".
"Sydney's housing prices shot up because foreign investors are buying trophy assets, in places like Bondi," says Elliot. "It's not sustainable growth because they're not being rented out and they're completely pricing people in the local market out of buying."
"The problem in Australia is that the only people who can afford to play the market in Sydney and Melbourne are Russians, Chinese and Middle Eastern investors."
World's 10 most expensive housing markets in 2017
1. Hong Kong, China
2. Sydney, NSW, Australia
2. Vancouver, BC, Canada
4. Auckland, New Zealand
5. San Jose, CA, US
6. Melbourne, VIC, Australia
7. Honolulu, HI, US
8. Los Angeles, CA, US
9. San Francisco, CA, US
10. Bournemouth & Dorset, UK
And the most affordable ...
The United States once again emerged as the most affordable major housing market, a title it has held for the past four years. 
The least expensive places to live in the United States were Racine, in Wisconsin, and Bay City, in Michigan, which had a score of 1.8 and 1.9, respectively. 
Japan and the UK followed as the second and third most affordable nations, with respective ratings of 4.1 and 4.5.
World's 10 most affordable housing markets in 2017
1. Racine, Wisconsin, US
2. Bay City, Michigan, US
3. Decatur, Illinois, US
4. Elmira, New York , US
5. East Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania, US
6. Karratha, Australia
7. Lima, Ohio, US
8. Moncton, Canada
9. Peoria, Illinois, US
10. Rockford, Illinois, US
