http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/politics/donald-trump-diplomacy/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjd2Yfek_XRAhVQ32MKHckRBnw4HhCnAggYMAE&usg=AFQjCNEjElGjQZYkpbBT99Ij3kAgjltSLA
Donald Trump's undiplomatic diplomacy
By Stephen Collinson, CNNUpdated 9:07 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump is quickly becoming the world's most undiplomatic -- and unpredictable -- diplomat.CNN's Manu Raju contributed to this reportOver the course of a week, he had a bruising telephone call with the leader of Australia, one of America's closet allies. He complained to the Mexican President about that country's "handling" of "tough hombres."
Trump on Friday warned in a tweet that Iran was "playing with fire" with its ballistic missile tests, part of an emerging strategy designed to show his administration will take a much harder line with the Islamic Republic.
But his administration stuck to the tools of traditional diplomacy by using a statement from Trump's press secretary Sean Spicer to warn Israel that new Israeli settlement activity could potentially hamper the peace process, a new stance for a White House that's remained adamant in its support for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
Throughout his campaign, Trump hailed the virtues of being unpredictable on the world stage. Much to the happiness of some of his supporters, he's following through. But in the process, Trump is confusing much of the world. He's also handing some leaders, such as those in the United Kingdom and Mexico, political headaches of their own after encountering Trump. And some of America's allies are beginning to warn that Trump is putting over 70 years of transatlantic cooperation at risk.
"His style of diplomacy is very different from his recent predecessors," former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd told CNN International's Hala Gorani Thursday. "He is much more in your face. I suppose the diplomacy of the rest of us is kind of going to have to get used to that." 
Michael Fullilove, the executive director of the Lowy Institute, a top Australian think-tank, said that while the US-Australia alliance would remain strong in the aftermath of the tense phone call, Trump's approach would inevitably have an impact. 
"It's a level of discourtesy that we don't expect," he said. "It will continue to inform the Australian public's view of Mr. Trump. I think inevitably it would inform public opinion about the alliance." 
Transactional diplomacy
Trump seems to view diplomacy through the prism of a business transaction, where there are winners and losers and a belief that even allies can take advantage of the US.
The great big Rex Tillerson to-do list
His foreign policy thinking -- at least so far -- appears to be focusing more on the mechanics of individual national relationships and less on a strategic vision in which allies are a vehicle for expressing US power and influence around the globe.
The President's phone call with Australian Prime Minister Malcom Turnbull went off the rails when discussion turned to a deal concluded by former President Barack Obama to allow 1,250 refugees from an offshore detention center to come to the United States.
Trump tweeted Thursday that the deal was "dumb," even though Spicer has said the US would honor the agreement and despite the President's order to temporarily halt all refugees from entering the country.
The President was still fulminating about the deal by Thursday afternoon.
"I just said why?... Why are we doing this? What's the purpose?" Trump told reporters. "We have wonderful allies and we're going to keep it that way but we need to be treated fairly also."
Trump's decision to question the deal has rattled relations with Australia, a crucial pillar of US Asia-Pacific strategy, a member of the Five Eyes intelligence sharing agreement and an ally that has battled alongside the United States dating back to World War I.
Trump continues to question refugee deal after heated call with Australian PM
Sen. John McCain, who fought with Australians in Vietnam, took it upon himself to smooth over relations on Thursday following Trump's showdown with Turnbull, telephoning Australia's ambassador to Washington.
"This in my view was unnecessary and frankly, harmful," the Arizona Republican said, adding that the dispute was far less important than cooperation, including joint training missions involving US Marines in the northern Australian city of Darwin.
Senior Democrats were also disturbed by the argument.
Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine said to have a "contentious conversation and name call (a) country or the Prime Minister of a country that is one of our greatest allies in Asia is foolish."
"He is doing kind of amateur hour stuff on matters of significant national importance," said Kaine, who was the 2016 Democratic vice presidential nominee.
Lesson for foreign leaders
Foreign policy experts said the US-Australia relationship remains too strong to be damaged. But the spat will be seen by other foreign leaders as a lesson in the difficulty of dealing with Trump.
British Prime Minister Theresa May found out that leaders who align themselves with Trump can get burned. The President didn't tell her he was signing an executive order restricting travel from seven predominantly Muslim countries soon after she left the White House last Friday, exposing her to a torrent of political criticism back home.
US planning additional sanctions on Iran following missile test
Trump's frequent criticisms of the European Union, which he has branded corrupt while apparently rooting for more nations to join Britain by voting to leave, is irking US allies, who see the block, for all its faults, as the root of decades of peace in Europe, a continent previously wracked by centuries of war.
"It is unacceptable that there should be, through a number of statements by the US President, pressure on what Europe should be or what it should no longer be," French President Francois Hollande said at the EU summit in Malta on Friday, 
"There is no future with Trump if it's not worked together," Hollande said, according to an official Twitter account for France's representative to the EU.
Trump has also criticized the other bulwark of European security, NATO, as obsolete and has far more in common with populist leaders seeking to make an impact in elections this year in the Netherlands, France and Germany than the ruling elites in those nations.
Despite anodyne government readouts, there were also hints of tension in Trump's weekend call with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whom the President has criticized for welcoming Syrian refugees.
Her office said Merkel "explained" to Trump that the Geneva Conventions require nations to offer a haven from refugees fleeing war.
But Trump is unapologetic about the bracing conversations he is having with world leaders -- a sign the White House is more concerned about Trump projecting a strong image on the world stage than stepping on diplomatic toes.
"The world is in trouble, but we're going to straighten it out. OK? That's what I do. I fix things. We're going to straighten it out," Trump said at the National Prayer Breakfast on Thursday. "Believe me. When you hear about the tough phone calls I'm having, don't worry about it. Just don't worry about it. They're tough. We have to tough ... We're taken advantage of by every nation in the world virtually. It's not going to happen anymore."
Trump's pugnacious approach to diplomacy is not surprising given his personality, which he used to great effect in his business career. While his attitude dismays foreign policy elites, it's likely to be welcomed by voters who turned to him in search of strong leadership and see his encounters as a manifestation of his "America First" philosophy.
But several diplomats have said Trump's acute course corrections in foreign policy and blunt manner make it difficult to decipher exactly where the United States now stands on key global issues.
Private vs. public arguments
Getting tough with America's friends also represents a break from previous administrations where disagreements often erupted but were not litigated in public. The White House may find in future that creating political problems for friendly leaders will make it more difficult for them to compromise with Washington or even to send troops to help fight America's wars.
UN Ambassador Haley hits Russia hard on Ukraine
"We have an unwritten rule in diplomacy, you are going to argue with your friends but do it behind closed doors, don't expose differences, in public," Nicholas Burns, a longtime US diplomat and former under secretary of state for political affairs, told CNN International. "Don't make life difficult for your friends, the Prime Minister of Australia, the Chancellor of Germany, the President of Mexico."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/01/politics/malcolm-turnbull-donald-trump-pena-nieto/index.html&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjd2Yfek_XRAhVQ32MKHckRBnw4HhCnAggbMAI&usg=AFQjCNHcHabaG97paiq6timBHkcNShYKSg
Trump had heated exchange with Australian PM, talked 'tough hombres' with Mexican leader
By Jake Tapper, Eli Watkins, Jim Acosta and Euan McKirdy, CNNUpdated 6:21 PM ET, Thu February 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump's roller coaster ride toward diplomacy continued late Wednesday night with a tweet calling an Obama-era agreement with Australia to accept refugees a "dumb deal."Trump has heated exchange with Australian PM Do you believe it? The Obama Administration agreed to take thousands of illegal immigrants from Australia. Why? I will study this dumb deal!CNN's Laura Koran, Kevin Liptak, Daniella Diaz and Leyla Santiago contributed to this report.During the US President's call with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Saturday, Trump objected to an agreement over the US receiving refugees, sources told CNN. All this a day after a call with Mexico's President, where a transcript showed Trump complaining about Mexico's "handling" of "tough hombres."
Australia is an ally of the United States, with the two countries joining three other English-speaking countries in an intelligence sharing arrangement known as the "Five Eyes." 
Refugee deal
The disagreement came as the two leaders discussed a deal, reached under the Obama administration, for the US to accept refugees from Australia who are living on islands in detention centers off the mainland due to strict government policies. 
Many of them are from the seven countries affected by Trump's travel ban. Trump on Friday also suspended the entry of all refugees for 120 days, along with indefinitely suspending the entry of Syrian refugees.
Sources say Trump insisted it was a very bad deal for the US to take 2,000 refugees and that one of them was going to be the next Boston bomber.
Turnbull told Trump several times the agreement was for 1,250 refugees, not 2,000. He also said Australia was asking to submit them to the US for refugee screening, and if the refugees did not pass the US screening process, they would not come.
Trump expressed concern as to how this agreement from President Barack Obama's administration would go forward given his executive order the day before temporarily suspending the US refugee program. 
Trump abruptly ended the call because he was unhappy, a source told CNN. White House press Wednesday night, Trump tweeted, "Do you believe it? The Obama administration agreed to take thousands of illegal immigrants from Australia. Why? I will study this dumb deal!"
Turnbull said the call ended "courteously" in a radio interview Thursday. 
On Thursday, Trump used his remarks at the National Prayer Breakfast -- an annual tradition attended by many world and religious leaders -- to weigh in on the reports circulating on his phone calls.
"When you hear about the tough phone calls I'm having, don't worry about it. Just don't worry about it. They're tough. We have to be tough. It's time we're going to be a little tough, folks," he said. "We're taken advantage of by every nation in the world, virtually. It's not going to happen anymore. It's not going to happen anymore."
The Washington Post was the first to report on the details of the Australian call.
When asked about the tweet labeling the agreement brokered with Obama's administration a "dumb deal," Turnball said, while the deal may not have been one Trump would've done or considered a "good deal," the President and his administration have committed to honor it. 
Earlier this week, Spicer said the Trump administration would honor the agreement, saying the refugees would be submitted to "extreme vetting." 
Turnbull attempted to keep some semblance of diplomacy, declining to elaborate on details of the call. 
"Look, I'm not going to comment on a conversation between myself and the President of the United States other than what we have said publicly, and you can surely understand the reasons for that," he said. "I'm sure you can understand that. It's better these conversations are conducted candidly, frankly, privately. If you'll see reports of them, I'm not going to add to them."
One person familiar with the circumstances on Saturday notes that President Trump's phone call with Turnbull came after a long day of conversations with other foreign leaders -- Turnbull was the fifth call after conversations with Japanese Prime Minister Abe, French President Hollande, German Chancellor Merkel, and Russian President Putin, each of which lasted close to an hour.
Trump, this source said, was feeling some fatigue after his first major bout of diplomacy. And while his earlier conversations weren't necessarily contentious, they did involve some tense moments. Merkel and Hollande pushed back on the travel ban over the phone. Merkel felt she had to explain the Geneva Convention to Trump -- a lecture a source has said Trump chafed at.
'Tough hombres' talk with Mexican President
CNN has also learned details about the Friday phone call between Trump and Peña Nieto, who canceled an in-person visit with Trump after the US President insisted Mexico pay for a border wall between the two countries.
According to an excerpt of the transcript of the call with Peña Nieto provided to CNN, Trump said, "You have some pretty tough hombres in Mexico that you may need help with. We are willing to help with that big-league, but they have be knocked out and you have not done a good job knocking them out."
Trump made an offer to help Peña Nieto with the drug cartels.
The excerpt of the transcript obtained by CNN differs with an official internal readout of the call that wrongly suggested Trump was contemplating sending troops to the border in a hostile way. 
The Associated Press report said Trump threatened to send US troops to stop criminals in Mexico unless the government did more to control them, but both the US and Mexican governments denied details from the story.
Sources described the AP's reporting as being based upon a readout -- written by aides -- not a transcript.
Spicer described the call with Peña Nieto as "productive."
A government official familiar with Trump's interactions with foreign leaders said, "(Trump's) interactions are naive in that he keeps suggesting we will have the best relationship ever with a broad departure of countries, but there is no substance to back it up. When he encounters a policy challenge, like with Turnbull, he responds with a tantrum."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/asia/australia-us-relationship-trump-turnbull/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjd2Yfek_XRAhVQ32MKHckRBnw4HhCnAggvMAY&usg=AFQjCNEkybyCABAh04FZ9mdrIyj3UcBeDQ
Could Trump fracture US and Australia's 'great alliance'?
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Ben Westcott and Juliet Perry, CNNUpdated 5:08 AM ET, Thu February 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)For more than 70 years, Australia and the United States have been inseparable allies.Do you believe it? The Obama Administration agreed to take thousands of illegal immigrants from Australia. Why? I will study this dumb deal!Trump has heated exchange with Australian PM Military, intelligence and cultural ties, combined with billions of dollars in investment and trade, built what former US President Obama described as a "great alliance."
But experts say the fallout from the rise of US President Donald Trump, who had a heated phone call with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on the weekend, could push the two countries apart.
"I think there will be long term consequences," Australian National University School of Politics professor John Warhurst told CNN. "It may well be that Trump's US and the rest of the world is fundamentally changed over the coming years."
In a phone call on Saturday, Trump and Turnbull butted heads about a deal struck with the Obama administration for the United States to take 1,250 refugees from Australia's offshore detention centers.
"I hope that friends on both sides can limit the damage that Mr Trump has done today ... It's a very troubling start to Mr Trump's management of the Australia alliance," Executive Director of Sydney's Lowy Institute, Dr Michael Fullilove, told CNN.
'Australia looks to America'
The US-Australian alliance dates back to the height of World War II, when Australian Prime Minister John Curtin announced a major shift in foreign policy.
"Australia looks to America, free of any pangs as to our traditional links or kinship with the United Kingdom," he wrote in his New Year message published on December 27, 1941.
Since then Australia has fought in at least five wars with the United States, including Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq. US troops are stationed at a military base in the northern Australian city of Darwin, as part of a deal struck by Obama.
More than 70 years after Curtin's message, speaking to the US congress in 2012, Prime Minister Julia Gillard reduced Speaker John Boehner to tears as she told them, "Americans can do anything."
The two even share confidential information as part of the exclusive intelligence sharing arrangement known as "Five Eyes," along with Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom.
"It's a cultural alliance, it's certainly a military alliance and in that sense it's Australia's closest alliance. I don't think any other countries match the closeness of that relationship," Warhurst said.
Tens of billions of dollars of trade flows between the countries every year, making the US Australia's second-largest trading partner in 2015.
Frayed alliance
Even before Trump's rise to power, there had been complaints in Australia about the closeness of the US alliance.
"For generations of (Australian) politicians it's been the default option -- the alliance is vital," International Politics professor Mark Beeson at University of Western Australia told CNN.
"However there have been the beginnings of the debate in Australia about what the benefit of the alliance was ... What is Australia's vital strategic interest in Iraq and Afghanistan?"
Beeson said Trump could push Australia towards closer alliances with its allies in the Asia region, including South Korea, Japan and Indonesia.
"(The change) wouldn't leave Australia as vulnerable to shifts in US foreign policy and leadership," he said.
But Fullilove said it was far too soon to tell what the final fallout would be to the Australia-US alliance, saying the relationship was larger than just Trump and Turnbull.
"(With Trump) if you overreact to every tweet you will exhaust yourself," he said. "You're better to squint your eyes and think what is the lasting damage and we don't know the damage yet."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/us/boy-toilet-snake-trnd/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjd2Yfek_XRAhVQ32MKHckRBnw4HhCnAggyMAc&usg=AFQjCNGKwrTbbo-VTal4nSjl6bYZ5HSBcw
Surprise! Boy finds rattlesnake in toilet
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Alexandra Larkin and Sophie Lewis, CNNUpdated 7:32 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)What do you do if you find a snake in your toilet? If you're Isac Mcfadden, you go get your mom.The young boy from Abilene, Texas, woke up Tuesday morning and headed to the bathroom. To his surprise, he found a rattlesnake slithering up his toilet bowl, KXVA reports.      "I found this big clump, and I knew it was a snake," said Isac. 
He quickly called his mom, Cassie Mcfadden, who recruited one of Isac's older brothers to get a shovel to kill the snake.
"I was just like, what do you do with this? What do you do with this? I don't know!" Cassie told the station. 
Cassie Mcfadden killed the snake while dad, Jason, called Big Country Snake Removal. When the technician arrived, he found 24 Western diamondback rattlesnakes -- 13 in the cellar, five adults and five babies underneath the house, and the one snake in the toilet, which had entered through a relief pipe.
"Rattlesnakes are secretive and can be very cryptic -- They rely heavily on their camouflage," the company warned on its Facebook page. "This is simply how they survive. Just because you don't see them doesn't mean they aren't there."
The firm recommended that property owners have their homes checked regularly for snake infestations and said they shouldn't be afraid. 
"Rattlesnakes are an absolute necessity for the ecosystems, and people have an irrational fear about them," a company spokesman said.
Isac and his brothers had some final words of wisdom for other kids who encounter snakes in their homes. 
"If you find a snake," they told KXVA, "always get an adult."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/opinions/beyonce-pregnancy-distract-us-from-trump-sklar-opinion/index.html&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjd2Yfek_XRAhVQ32MKHckRBnw4HhCnAgg1MAg&usg=AFQjCNF6iM-2ygh3fB0F1G3qoymb9S9HDw
Queen Bey's pregnancy is a lifeline for humanity
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Rachel SklarUpdated 11:35 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Rachel Sklar is a writer and former lawyer based in New York. She is the founder of TheLi.st, a network and media platform for women. The opinions expressed here are solely those of the author. (CNN)Beyoncé sure knows how to get our attention. Join us on Twitter and FacebookShe's done it again and again with her culture-stopping music, videos and and performances. 
All The Single Ladies, which launched countless YouTube videos of toddlers dancing and one infamous Kanye West tirade. Or, how about when she asked "Who run the world?" (The answer: girls - a theme she would return to again and again). Striding out at the 2014 VMAs flanked by the giant word "FEMINIST." 
Other significant moments: Her 2013 self-titled visual album, stealth-dropped in late December and instantly required listening and viewing. Also, the revelation that was "Formation." And her 2016 Superbowl performance (very popular with conservatives). Lemonade, the album that launched a thousand thinkpieces about her politics and identity (sample headline: "Beyonce's 'Lemonade' Is an Anthem for the Retribution of Black Women.")
Then, earlier this week, she added her announcement via Instagram - bedecked in flowers, a veil and her glorious fecundity - that she is pregnant with twins.
Predictably, the Internet went bananas. Her post zoomed to most-liked-ever status inside a day. Twitter was beside itself with bee emojis and "YASSS QUEEEN" updates. The joy was palpable. 
Joy -- and relief. Because, man did we ever need some good news. 
It has been a rough few weeks in the news cycle (for people who care about democracy and due process and the welfare of their fellow humans). 
A breathless pace of executive orders attacking the environment, women, refugees, lawful visa-holders and US parks employees has led to record-breaking protests, an unrelenting call-your-Senator schedule and Jon Stewart channelling just how exhausted we all are. So we really, really needed something to feel good about. 
Beyoncé delivered that to us with her announcement, which was styled with the kind of bravado, exuberance and confidence that even a dude who lives in a solid-gold tower could never get away with. And she doubled down on it with a collection of photographs so resplendently gorgeous and near-otherworldly (I mean, just look at this one and this one, and this one) that it actually succeeded in not just distracting us from the dark craziness swirling around the country, but transporting us completely, if momentarily, into another (happier) world. 
This is classic Beyoncé. Beyoncé, who flagrantly loves her body and demands that you respect it, now reminds us that it's a body that can march like a boss in heels but also swell with life and hope, sexy and powerful in all its forms. (And she does it while sitting on a throne of flowers, lest you forget she is the Queen.)
It is possible, of course, for Beyoncé's pregnancy to exist without reference to Donald Trump. He doesn't get to be part of every story, even as he barges into our every waking moment with new acts of cruelty or rule-flouting or self-aggrandizement or jaw-dropping ignorance. Even so, it's hard not to see a juxtaposition here. Trump's administration has focused on restricting, undoing, and upending. But Beyoncé is creating. 
That was the theme of her photo collection. Called "I Have Three Hearts," it was paired with a poem of the same name by the Somalian poet Warsan Shire, who also wrote the poetry in Lemonade -- and who, I guess, would not be allowed to enter the United States.
It reads: "There's life growing inside of me and I'm beside myself with dreams."  In a real and visceral way, Beyoncé has reminded us that even in times that feel broken, we are vessels of power and glory and hope. 
Is what I am saying over the top here? Maybe, but I found those images coupled with that poem to be profoundly moving as a mother and a feminist and, well, a human. I will leave the smart thinkpieces about the poem to other writers, (I'm looking at you, Melissa Harris-Perry) but one line in particular stands out to me: "Flowers grow wherever."
Flowers grow wherever. When the books are written about this period in time, I believe that will be an enduring theme -- the hope that sprang up out of the chaos, and the real and visceral good that it created. Beyoncé just named it. Creators gonna create. 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/politics/donald-trump-national-prayer-breakfast/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjd2Yfek_XRAhVQ32MKHckRBnw4HhCnAgg4MAk&usg=AFQjCNEMQy5FHE24-Rpr7MwBzeC6LjciMw
Trump at National Prayer Breakfast: 'Pray for Arnold'
By Dan Merica and Eugene Scott, CNNUpdated 12:11 PM ET, Thu February 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump veered off script at the start of the National Prayer Breakfast Thursday when he asked a room full of lawmakers, foreign dignitaries and religious leaders to pray for Arnold Schwarzenegger so that ratings of his show -- NBC's "The Apprentice" -- would go up.The National Prayer Breakfast? pic.twitter.com/KYUqEZbJIETrump, who lauded the six-decade long traditional gathering as a "testament to the power of faith" was introduced by Mark Burnett, the television producer who teamed up with Trump to create "The Apprentice." The hit show arguably launched Trump's political ambitions.
Trump left the show, however, in 2015 as he explored a presidential run and Burnett replaced him with Schwarzenegger, the movie star and former California governor.
Trump trashes Arnold Schwarzenegger for 'Apprentice' ratings
"We know how that turned out," Trump said, knocking Schwarzenegger. "The ratings went right down the tubes. It has been a disaster."
Trump then turned to the audience and said: "I want to just pray for Arnold ... for those ratings."
The comment may have been intended as a joke, but Trump's opening came in sharp contrast to how past presidents have addressed the breakfast.
Schwarzenegger promptly replied via a Twitter video: "Hey Donald. I have a great idea. Why don't we switch jobs? You take over TV, cause you're such an expert in ratings. And I take over your job, so that people can finally sleep comfortably again."
Trump and Schwarzenegger have been in a public back-and-forth since the former California governor took over the show.
Trump is still listed as an executive producer on the current season, and the assets he put in a trust managed by his sons still includes a financial stake in the reality show.
The annual multi-faith breakfast is held on the first Thursday of February each year. Lawmakers and religious leaders from about 70 countries gather at the Washington event, first organized in 1953. It is meant to bring bipartisan political leaders and their religious counterparts together to meet, pray and build relationships. Every president since Dwight D. Eisenhower has headlined the event.
Trump used his remarks to weigh in on reports circulating on his phone calls with foreign leaders from Australia and Mexico, attempting to allay concerns.
"When you hear about the tough phone calls I'm having, don't worry about it. Just don't worry about it. They're tough. We have to be tough. It's time we're going to be a little tough, folks," he said. "We're taken advantage of by every nation in the world, virtually. It's not going to happen anymore. It's not going to happen anymore."
The keynote speaker at the National Prayer Breakfast was Barry Black, the chaplain of the United States Senate.
Moved by Black's remarks, Trump lauded him.
"Thank you as well to senator chaplain Barry Black for his moving words," he said.
Trump added: "I don't know, chaplain, whether that's an appointed position? Is that an appointed position? I don't know if you're Democrat or Republican, but I'm appointing you for another year. The hell with it."
To many, especially the religious leaders in the room, "hell" is a swear word.
'Celebrity Apprentice' ratings get no Trump bump
When then-President Barack Obama spoke at the national prayer event in 2016, he highlighted the importance of needing to overcome fear through faith. 
Trump also touched on supporting religious liberty, protecting national security and defending his controversial travel ban in his wide-ranging speech.
"Our republic was formed on the basis that freedom is not a gift from government, but freedom is a gift from God. It was the great Thomas Jefferson who said, 'The god who gave us life, gave us liberty,' " Trump said.
He continued: "Jefferson asked, 'Can the liberties of a nation be secured when we have removed a conviction that these liberties are the gift of god?' Among those freedoms is the right to worship according to our own beliefs. That is why I will get rid of and totally destroy the Johnson amendment and allow our representatives of faith to speak freely and without fear of retribution. I will do that."
The Johnson amendment prohibits tax-exempt organizations like religious groups from endorsing or opposing political candidates, something Trump often mentioned on the campaign trail.
In 2013, neurosurgeon Ben Carson rose to political prominence after giving an impassioned speech at the breakfast. Carson, Trump's nominee to lead the Department of Housing and Urban Development, attacked what he saw as government overreach including in the area of health care, one of Obama's signature policy achievements.
His performance made him a favorite of conservatives, in no small part because his full-throated denouncement came with Obama sitting near him at the head table.
Obama's final speech focused on overcoming fear through faith. The 2016 breakfast came one day after Obama made a historic visit to a Baltimore mosque and spoke about the importance of religious inclusivity.
"Fear can lead us to lash out against those who are different or lead us to try to get some sinister 'other' under control," said Obama, making a veiled reference to divisive rhetoric on the presidential campaign trail.
This is Trump's first time attending the breakfast.
