http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/30/us/boy-scouts-transgender-membership/index.html&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjQreeVlPXRAhUEx2MKHTd8Dwk4UBCnAggVMAA&usg=AFQjCNFR1pUh_DsCBMRP0FG15Pk-V7VT4Q
Boy Scouts open membership to transgender boys
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Emanuella Grinberg, CNNUpdated 10:18 AM ET, Tue January 31, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)The Boy Scouts of America says it will begin accepting members based on their gender identity, opening the door for transgender boys to join.CNN's Jamiel Lynch contributed to this report.Under the new policy, which takes effect immediately, membership in Cub Scouts and Boy Scouts will be based on the gender indicated on an application. 
Previously, the organization relied on an individual's birth certificate to determine eligibility for its single-gender programs. 
"However, that approach is no longer sufficient as communities and state laws are interpreting gender identity differently, and these laws vary widely from state to state," BSA spokeswoman Effie Delimarkos said in a statement Monday.
The change brings the Boy Scouts in line with other youth organizations, including the Girl Scouts, that have created transgender-friendly membership policies in recent years.
It comes a few months after an 8-year-old Cub Scout in New Jersey accused the organization of expelling him for being transgender. 
The Boy Scouts did not specifically cite the New Jersey case in its statement. But Chief Scout Executive Michael Surbaugh acknowledged the group recently had been "challenged by a very complex topic... the issue of gender identity."
"We've taken the opportunity to evaluate and update our approach. I hope you'll join with me in embracing the opportunity to bring scouting to more families and children who can benefit from what our organization has to offer," he said in video statement.
"This is an area that we will continue to thoughtfully evaluate to bring the benefits of scouting to the greatest number of youth possible all while remaining true to our core beliefs."
Zach Wahls, co-founder of Scouts for Equality, applauded the decision and credited the New Jersey case with forcing BSA to rethink its policy.
"This is another historic day for the Boy Scouts of America. The decision to allow transgender boys to participate in the Cub Scouts and the Boy Scouts is an important step forward for this American institution," Wahls said.
"We are incredibly proud of Joe Maldonado -- the transgender boy from New Jersey whose expulsion last year ignited this controversy -- and his mother Kristie for their courage in doing what they knew was right. We are also proud of the Boy Scouts for deciding to do the right thing. We look forward to seeing more detail clarifying this policy change in the days and weeks ahead."
The Boys Scouts of America has come under fire in the past over LGBT issues. In 2015, it lifted the ban on gay adults as Scout leaders. And it was only three years ago that it allowed allowed openly gay youths to join scouting.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/29/politics/donald-trump-travel-ban-green-card-dual-citizens/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjQreeVlPXRAhUEx2MKHTd8Dwk4UBCnAggYMAE&usg=AFQjCNHZ4TkX_uPXVxrMgRphLjERC6QDRg
How Trump's travel ban affects green card holders and dual citizens
By Dan Merica, CNNUpdated 8:36 PM ET, Sun January 29, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump's immigration executive order set off mass confusion at airports and even the agencies in charge of implementing it. CNN's Sara Murray, Tammy Kupperman, Pamela Brown, Evan Perez, Rene Marsh, Elise Labott contributed to this report.One key question for many is how the order will affect US green card holders and people who hold dual citizenship with a Trump approved country and one of the seven banned nations.
Adding to the confusion, Trump administration officials seemed to at times contradict themselves during appearances on Sunday news shows. In mere minutes during an interview with NBC, White House chief of staff Reince Priebus said the order "doesn't affect" green card holders, then later said "of course" it affects green card holders from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Yemen and Somalia -- the seven countries Trump has temporarily stop immigration from for 90 days.
Trump on Sunday defended his recent executive order on extreme vetting, saying in a statement: "We will continue to show compassion to those fleeing oppression, but we will do while protecting our own citizens and voters."
He added: "This is not a Muslim ban, as the media is falsely reporting. This is not about religion -- this is about terror and keeping our country safe."
He said his first priority "will always be to protect and serve our country, but as President I will find ways to help all of those who are suffering."
But a top GOP senator, citing green card holders in particular, called on Trump to revise portions of the order.
"We all share a desire to protect the American people, but this executive order has been poorly implemented, especially with respect to green card holders," Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker said Sunday. "The administration should immediately make appropriate revisions, and it is my hope that following a thorough review and implementation of security enhancements that many of these programs will be improved and reinstated."
Later Sunday, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly issued a statement clarifying their status saying "lawful permanent resident status will be a dispositive factor in our case-by-case determinations."
Another Homeland Security official told CNN the green card holders who are returning to the US will still go through additional screening and national security checks upon landing. However, the government is trying to ease their entry back into the US. Unless they have a significant criminal history or links to terrorism, they will be allowed back in the country after going the check the official said.
"This is our message to them: get on a plane. Come back to the US. You will be subject to secondary screening, but everything else will be normal," the Homeland Security official told CNN.
A White House official said Sunday more than 170 green card holders had been waived in as of 3 p.m.
Here is what we know about how Trump's order impacts green card holders and dual citizens:
Where do green card holders from Trump's seven banned countries stand?
Senior officials at the Department of Homeland Security initially interpreted Trump's order to not apply to green card holders from the seven banned countries. Trump White House overruled that reading, however, meaning those green card holders were initially barred.
But a federal judge in New York temporarily blocked part of Trump's order late on Saturday night, ruling that citizens of the seven countries who hold valid visas and have already arrived in the United States cannot be removed from the United States.
READ MORE: 
• Protesters demonstrate against Trump's order.
• Immigration ban sends shockwaves around the world.
• What immigrants need to know.
• Read the judge's order.
A senior Department of Homeland Security official told CNN on Saturday that the United States denied entry to 109 travelers who were in transit at the time Trump signed the order. Some of those residents of Iran, Iraq, Sudan, Syria, Somalia, Libya or Yemen were detained at airports across the country this weekend, leading to large protests at major airports.
The official added that no legal green card holders have been denied entry, but Trump's order has made it more difficult to enter the United States.
Here is the process for US green card holders from Iran, Iraq, Sudan, Syria, Somalia, Libya or Yemen as CNN understands it now: They are allowed to board their plane and fly to the United States. Once they land, their fingerprints and other information will be collected and they will be subject to a secondary interview, in part, to judge whether the traveler is a national security risk.
Priebus said Sunday that border agents have "discretionary authority" to question travelers from certain countries.
And a White House official told CNN Sunday that the ruling "does not undercut the President's executive order."
"All stopped visas will remain stopped. All halted admissions will remain halted. All restricted travel will remain prohibited," the official said. "The executive order is a vital action toward strengthening America's borders, and therefore sovereignty. The order remains in place."
There was no buffer time to Trump's order, meaning that it effectively went into order as soon as the President signed it. The order, however, was not publicly released for hours after Trump's pen hit paper, leading airlines and other stakeholders to grow confused about how they implement the new rules.
Two days since the order has been signed, airlines have begun instructing travelers that permanent green card holders are allowed to travel to the United States.
The International Air Transport Association told airlines on Sunday that the Custom and Border Patrol instructed them that "lawful permanent residents of the United States (green card holders) were out of scope of the (executive order)," according to an email obtained by CNN.
What if you are a dual citizen from one of Trump's seven banned countries?
The situation is similar for people from Trump's seven banned countries who also hold valid passports from Trump approved countries: confusion reigns.
Initially, the guidance provided by a State Department official was that someone who holds dual citizenship from one of the seven banned countries would be barred from entering the United States.
"Travelers who have nationality or dual nationality of one of these countries will not be permitted for 90 days to enter the United States or be issued an immigrant or non-immigrant visa," a State Department official said Saturday. "Those nationals or dual nationals holding valid immigrant or non-immigrant visas will not be permitted to enter the United States during this period."
This guidance means that a Iranian national who also holders a Canadian passport would be barred from entering the United States.
The same State Department official told CNN that the executive order "should not affect dual-national Americans at all," meaning a US citizen who also holds citizenship from one of Trump's seven banned countries would be allowed in.
But in the last 24 hours, the guidance has seemingly changed.
The International Air Transport Association told their airlines that dual nationals who hold a passport from an approved country would be allowed in.
"Dual nationals holding and traveling with a valid passport issued by a State other than one of the above-mentioned will be allowed entry provided meeting all criteria based upon the passenger's nationality," their guidance reads.
The confusion, however, has led many companies and institutions to caution anyone with citizenship or ties to one of the seven banned countries from leaving the United States.
Representative from Google, for example, told employees who are dual nationals from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen to stay in the United States before more clarity could be provided.
Did Trump's banned countries list really originate with Obama?
The Trump administration's explanation is that they started with countries already designated by the Obama administration, and more can be added. But there is a difference between what Obama did and what Trump is doing. It comes down to  the scope and breadth of people impacted, at least for the start. 
Trump's action says they will implement this temporary ban while they figure out how to give people from these countries increased scrutiny. For now it is an almost complete ban. 
The Obama administration's travel restriction provided extra scrutiny to people who traveled to these seven countries -- Iran, Iraq, Sudan, Syria, Somalia, Libya and Yemen -- because they are hotbeds for foreign fighters. It did not specifically ban people from entering the US just because they were citizens from these seven countries. All were still eligible to apply and get interviewed, they just could not utilize the visa waiver program. It was not a complete ban. 
The countries are indeed from the Obama administration's list, but the breadth of the limitations are far greater at the outset.
It also does not explain why other countries are not on the list. There are suggestions in the Trump administration officials' comments that the list could expand. That remains to be seen.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/28/politics/2-iraqis-file-lawsuit-after-being-detained-in-ny-due-to-travel-ban/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjQreeVlPXRAhUEx2MKHTd8Dwk4UBCnAggbMAI&usg=AFQjCNHr7jE8ufD0zOhTm6cfCF6COckfNQ
Judges temporarily block part of Trump's immigration order, WH stands by it
By Ariane de Vogue, Eli Watkins and Alanne Orjoux, CNNUpdated 12:17 PM ET, Sun January 29, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Does the travel ban affect you, your friends or loved ones? We want to hear your stories. Tag #CNNiReport on social or use WhatsApp +44 7435 939 154 to share stories. (CNN)A federal judge in New York blocked part of President Donald Trump's controversial executive order on immigration Saturday, ruling that authorities could not remove individuals from seven Muslim-majority countries who had arrived in US airports after the order had been issued. The White House, however, maintained Sunday that the ruling does not undercut the executive orderIranIraqSyriaSudanLibyaYemenSomalia134 million banned from USWhat the ban says: The full textThe first two refugees kept out of America by President Trump's order are Iraqis who helped US troops survive during the war.These men risked their lives for years to keep our troops safe. One was with the 101st Airborne. This is no way to treat our allies.Trump's anti-Muslim order plays into the hands of fanatics wishing to harm America. Love and compassion trump hatred and intolerance. https://t.co/hUzvqqqd9HThis story has been updated to reflect the latest reporting.US Judge Ann M. Donnelly held that the petitioners had a "strong likelihood of success" in establishing that their removal "violates their rights to Due Process and Equal Protection guaranteed by the United States Constitution." 
Donnelly, who was appointed to the bench by President Barack Obama, sits on the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
A White House spokesperson defended the order Sunday, saying: "It is the right and duty of the President to do everything in his legal and constitutional power to protect the American people." 
"Saturday's ruling does not undercut the President's executive order. All stopped visas will remain stopped. All halted admissions will remain halted. All restricted travel will remain prohibited. The executive order is a vital action toward strengthening America's borders, and therefore sovereignty. The order remains in place," the spokesperson said.
The court's ruling came after immigration lawyers at the Americans Civil Liberties Union and other groups flocked to airports across the country to come to the aide of individuals who had arrived with valid immigrant visas and found themselves in legal limbo. The lawyers asked  for a nationwide stay that would block the deportation of all people stranded in US airports under what the group called "President Trump's new Muslim ban."
READ MORE: 
• Protesters demonstrate against Trump's order.
• Immigration ban sends shockwaves around the world.
• What immigrants need to know.
• Read the judge's order.
Donnelly granted their request, writing: "There is imminent danger that, absent the stay of removal, there will be substantial and irreparable injury to refugees, visa-holders, and other individuals from nations subject to the January 27, 2017, Executive Order."
Trump's order, titled "Protection Of The Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into The United States," makes good on his longtime campaign promise to tighten borders and halt certain refugees from entering the United States.
As well as the ban on travel from seven named countries for 90 days, it also caps the total number of refugees admitted into the United States during the 2017 fiscal year at 50,000, down more than half from the current level of 110,000. It halts all refugees from Syria indefinitely.
"I am establishing new vetting measures to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of the United States of America," Trump said during the signing at the Pentagon. "We don't want them here."
As Donnelly was considering the case, lawyers around the country rushed to file legal briefs. 
Early Sunday morning, a federal court in Massachusetts also issued a temporary restraining order, blocking part of the executive order in a case brought by lawyers for two lawful permanent residents who are college professors. That order, issued by United States District Court Judge Allison D. Burroughs, also an Obama appointee, went a step further ordering that the government could not "detain or remove" individuals who had arrived legally from the countries subject to Trump's order: Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen.
Burroughs said that her order applied to the petitioners in the case as well as those similarly situated including lawful permanent residents, citizens, visa-holders, approved refugees, and other individuals from nations who are subject to the January 27, 2017, executive order. The order was also signed by United States Magistrate Judge Gail Dein. The judges specified that the order would remain in effect for seven days while the court scheduled a hearing.
Lawsuit success
The United States denied entry to 109 travelers heading to the country at the time the ruling was signed, a Department of Homeland Security official said. The agency would not say how many of the 109 were sent already home and how many were detained.
The ruling does not necessarily mean the people being held at airports across the US are going to be released, said Zachary Manfredi, from Yale's Worker and Immigrant Rights Advocacy Clinic, who helped draft the emergency stay motion.
"The judge's order is that they (lawful visa/green card holders) not be removed from the US -- it doesn't immediately order that they be released from detention," he told CNN.
"We are hoping that (Customs and Border Patrol), now that they no longer have a reason to detain them, will release them. But it is also possible they could be transferred to (other) detention facilities," Manfredi said.
"We are getting the order to as many (Customs and Border Patrol) officers as possible right now," he added.
ACLU officials praised the judge's ruling.
"Clearly the judge understood the possibility for irreparable harm to hundreds of immigrants and lawful visitors to this country," said ACLU executive director Anthony D. Romero. "Our courts today worked as they should as bulwarks against government abuse or unconstitutional policies and orders. On week one, Donald Trump suffered his first loss in court."
Lee Gelernt, deputy director of the ACLU's Immigrants' Rights Project, who argued the case, said the ruling "preserves the status quo and ensures that people who have been granted permission to be in this country are not illegally removed off US soil."
Lawsuit is first challenge to executive order
The class-action lawsuit in New York is the first legal challenge to Trump's controversial executive order, which indefinitely suspends admissions for Syrian refugees and limits the flow of other refugees into the United States by instituting what the President has called "extreme vetting" of immigrants. 
The two Iraqis, Hameed Khalid Darweesh and Haider Sameer Abdulkaleq Alshawi, had been released by Saturday night. But lawyers for other detained travelers said in a court filing that "dozens and dozens" of individuals remained held at JFK.
Similar legal actions were initiated in other states before the ruling in New York took effect. 
A federal court in Washington state issued a stay forbidding travelers being detained there from being sent back to their home country. 
A federal court in Virginia has issued a temporary restraining order saying several dozen permanent residents returning from trips abroad should have access to lawyers while they are being detained at Dulles International Airport and these residents cannot be removed from the United States for seven days.
'America is the land of freedom'
According to court papers, both Darweesh and Alshawi were legally allowed to come into the US but were detained in accordance with Trump's order.
Darweesh, who worked as an interpreter for the US during the Iraq War, was released from detention early Saturday afternoon. 
"America is the land of freedom," he told reporters at the airport shortly after his release. "America is the greatest nation."
A source with knowledge of the case confirmed Darweesh will be allowed into the US due to provisions in Trump's order that allow the State and Homeland Security departments to admit individuals into the US on a case-by-case base for certain reasons, including when the person is already in transit and it would cause undue hardship and would not pose a threat to the security of the US.
The suit said Darweesh held a special immigrant visa, which he was granted the day of Trump's inauguration on January 20, due to his work for the US government from 2003 to 2013.
Alshawi was released Saturday night, according to his attorney, Mark Doss.
Rep. Nydia Velazquez, D-New York, who had arrived at JFK by early Saturday afternoon to try and secure the release of the two Iraqis, railed against Trump's order and pledged continued action.
"This should not happen in America," Velazquez said following Darweesh's release. "One-by-one, street-by-street, if we have to go to court, we will fight this anyplace, anywhere."
'The executive order is unlawful'
The lawsuit said the US granted Alshawi a visa earlier this month to meet with his wife and son, whom the US already granted refugee status for her association with the US military.
The lawyers for the two men called for a hearing because they maintain the detention of people with valid visas is illegal.
"Because the executive order is unlawful as applied to petitioners, their continued detention based solely on the executive order violates their Fifth Amendment procedural and substantive due process rights," the lawyers argue in court papers.
Court papers said Customs and Border Patrol authorities did not allow the lawyers to meet with the men, and told them to try reaching Trump. Velázquez and fellow New York Democratic Rep. Jerrold Nadler said they attempted to speak to Darweesh and Alshawi at JFK's Terminal 4 earlier Saturday but were denied.
"When Mr. Darweesh's attorneys approached CBP requesting to speak with Mr. Darweesh, CBP indicated that they were not the ones to talk to about seeing their client. When the attorneys asked, 'Who is the person to talk to?' the CBP agents responded, 'Mr. President. Call Mr. Trump,' " the court papers read.
Doss, an attorney with the International Refugee Assistance Project, told CNN his clients knew they had to get to the US as soon as possible so they boarded the first flight they could. 
The two men had been allowed to make phone calls. They do not know each other, and it is unclear if they were held together or separately, or if they were kept in a holding cell, according to Doss.
The lawsuit was earlier reported by The New York Times.
Legality questioned
But the order immediately raised questions about its legal standing.
"What this order does is take people who played by the rules who have been rigorously vetted and slams the door of the country in their face because of their religion," said David Leopold, an immigration attorney and the former president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.
But Stephen Yale-Loehr, a professor of immigration law practice at Cornell Law School, said Trump's order may have merit.
"The plaintiffs are alleging a variety of reasons why they should not be detained under the executive order. Their arguments include the equal protection clause of the Constitution and a provision in the immigration law that prohibits national origin discrimination," Yale-Loehr said. "However, presidents have wide discretion on immigration, because immigration touches national sovereignty and foreign relations. Courts tend to defer to whatever a president declares on immigration. I think the administration could win."
An administration official told CNN if a person has a valid visa to enter the US but is a citizen of one of the seven countries under the temporary travel ban, then the person cannot come into the US. If the person landed after the order was signed Friday afternoon, then the person would be detained and put back on a flight to their country of citizenship. 
Separately, Department of Homeland Security officials acknowledged people who were in the air would be detained upon arrival and put back on a plane to their home country. An official was not able to provide numbers of how many have already been detained.
Progressives outraged
Democrats and liberal-leaning groups continued to denounce Trump's order Saturday as racist. 
"The first two refugees kept out of America by President Trump's order are Iraqis who helped US troops survive during the war," Rep. Jim Cooper, D-Tennessee, said on Twitter. "These men risked their lives for years to keep our troops safe. One was with the 101st Airborne. This is no way to treat our allies."
Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders called the action an "anti-Muslim order" that "plays into the hands of fanatics wishing to harm America."
And Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer called on the Trump administration to "rescind these anti-American executive actions that will do absolutely nothing to improve our safety."
Travelers turned away
Sarah Assali from Allentown, Pennsylvania, told CNN Saturday that the US government stopped six of her Syrian family members at Philadelphia International Airport and sent them back to Doha, Qatar, the origin city of their flight.
Assali said her family members were persecuted Christians and did not speak very good English, so they did not fully understand why they were being put on a plane back to the Middle East.
Additionally, some US-bound travelers who were either refugees or from countries specified in Trump's executive ban have been turned back from Cairo International Airport, according to a Cairo airport official who is not authorized to speak to the media. 
The official said they were required to follow the instructions of the United States in the matter. He said "(The airport personnel) have no choice but to follow orders. I don't want to blame anyone here." 
CNN's Kevin Bohn, Ryan Nobels, Ellie Kaufman, Patricia Pedraza, Sheena Jones, Mohammed Tawfeeq, Rachel Crane, Chris Welch and Sarah Jorgensen contributed to this report.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/31/us/trump-lawsuits-travel-ban-conflicts-interest/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjQreeVlPXRAhUEx2MKHTd8Dwk4UBCnAggmMAU&usg=AFQjCNFLv-J9mCycW8hAkPjwfFUjhfGqJw
Trump's first days in office spawn dozens of lawsuits
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Eliott C. McLaughlin, CNNUpdated 8:54 AM ET, Wed February 1, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)Donald Trump the businessman was no stranger to lawsuits, both frivolous and substantive. What we know so farWhat it's like in the 7 impacted countriesIranIraqSyriaSudanLibyaYemenSomaliaCNN's Ellie Kaufman, AnneClaire Stapleton, Devon M. Sayers, Ralph Ellis, Laura Jarrett, Sarah Jorgensen, Kristina Sgueglia, Laura Ly, Kayla Rodgers and Ryan Rios contributed to this report. The high-profile wheeler and dealer filed numerous lawsuits and faced an array of allegations of his own before stepping into the Oval Office, including claims of sexual harassment, bilking investors and defrauding students of his eponymous university. 
Donald Trump the president has continued that legal legacy, as it were. 
In his first 11 days at the country's helm, his travel ban and perceived conflicts of interest have spawned a handful of lawsuits, with plaintiffs contending the President of the United States should not be barring certain immigrants from entering the country and that his enterprises around the globe should not be accepting business from foreign governments. 
Trump and his representatives have repeatedly defended the travel ban and dismissed concerns about potential conflicts of interest. Earlier this month Trump said he would transfer his business holdings to a trust run by his sons.
As of midday Tuesday, Trump has been named in 42 federal lawsuits since his inauguration. By comparison, former President Barack Obama was named in 11 suits during his first 11 days in office -- some of them involving the long-debunked "birther" claims that Obama was not an American citizen. 
Here's a look at some of the lawsuits from the opening days of Trump's presidency. 
Darweesh v. Trump
Hameed Khalid Darweesh worked with the American government for 10 years after the United States invaded Iraq. Another Iraqi, Haider Sameer Abdulkhaleq Alshawi, had been granted a visa to join his wife, who worked for an American contractor in Iraq, and son, 7, both of whom already live in the United States as refugees. 
The two men were detained Saturday at John F. Kennedy International Airport, setting off a large protest. 
The ACLU and other groups filed a class-action lawsuit -- the first to challenge Trump's executive order on immigration -- on behalf of the men. Separately, the Pentagon is compiling names of people who supported US military operations in Iraq so they can more easily receive waivers under Trump's executive order on immigration, Pentagon spokesman Capt. Jeff Davis said.
Read the court documents 
CAIR's lawsuit
The Council on American Islamic Relations on Monday filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia on behalf of 27 named and unnamed individuals challenging what the Muslim civil rights organization terms Trump's "Muslim ban." It targets Trump, Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, the State Department and the Director of National Intelligence. 
The White House has repeatedly said its travel ban is not based on religion and Trump has chastised the media for reporting otherwise. But CAIR alleges that the "underlying motive" of Trump's executive order is to ban people of the Islamic faith from entering the country. 
"There is no evidence that refugees -- the most thoroughly vetted of all people entering our nation -- are a threat to national security," Lena Masri, CAIR's national litigation director, said in a statement. "This is an order that is based on bigotry, not reality."
Read the CAIR lawsuit
Suit for those who never left for US
The Arab American Civil Rights League filed suit on behalf of six people who were not allowed to get on a plane back to the United States.  "This is addressing those individuals that are stuck overseas, that cannot be with their loved ones," attorney Nabih Ayad, founder of the ACRL, said at a news conference.
The organization said the six people live in the Detroit area. The suit also was filed on behalf of people in similar situations.
"Plaintiffs file this present suit due to the fact that the existing  orders do not encompass green card holders that were not en route or detained by the United States," the lawsuit says. 
Read the ACRL lawsuit
Another case in Virginia
A federal court issued a temporary restraining order saying that 50 to 60 permanent residents returning from trips abroad should have access to lawyers while they are being detained at Dulles International Airport and that these people cannot be removed from the United States for seven days.
The motion for the restraining order, filed on behalf of brothers Tareq Aqel Mohammed Aziz and Ammar Aqel Mohammed Aziz, said that without counsel the detainees could not meaningfully understand their rights and obligations. 
There also "exists the risk that petitioners have credible fears regarding a removal from the United States, should any petitioner be sent to a country where he or she has previously been the subject to or threatened with persecution," the lawsuit said. 
Read the motion for the restraining order
Emoluments Clause
Just three days after Trump took office, the Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington sued the President, alleging that Trump violated the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution. 
CREW alleges in the suit filed in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York that the clause prohibits Trump from accepting anything of value from foreign governments, via his myriad business ventures overseas. 
Experts differ on whether the case is a viable one, and Trump lawyer Sheri Dillon said earlier this month that the Constitution's framers never considered "that paying your hotel bill was an emolument." 
Also, the US Supreme Court has has ruled that to sue in federal court, plaintiffs must prove a concrete and particularized injury. CREW has said that Trump is forcing it to "divert essential and limited sources" from its government watchdog role, forcing the organization to litigate the matter and educate the public unless a court stops him. 
In a column for The New York Times this week, Norman Eisen and Richard Painter -- former White House ethics lawyers who now serve, respectively, as CREW's chairman and vice chairman -- linked the emoluments case to the travel ban. The seven countries affected by the travel ban are areas where the President has done business in his previous life, they said. 
But he omitted Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Turkey, India and the Philippines -- countries Eisen and Painter contend have and do pose terror threats to the US.
San Francisco sanctuary city
San Francisco City Attorney Dennis Herrera filed suit Tuesday against the Trump administration over the President's order targeting sanctuary cities. The White House has threatened to withhold federal grants from any "jurisdictions" that protect undocumented immigrants and decline to prosecute them for violating immigration laws. 
"The president's executive order is not only unconstitutional, it's un-American," Herrera said in a statement. "That is why we must stand up and oppose it. We are a nation of immigrants and a land of laws. We must be the 'guardians of our democracy' that President Obama urged us all to be in his farewell address."
"Sanctuary cities have less crime, fewer people in poverty and lower unemployment than other counties," he said, citing a University of California, San Diego study. Herrera accuses Trump of exceeding his authority, and his lawsuit challenges the constitutionality of the presidential order and requests a finding that San Francisco is complying with federal law. 
Read Herrera's lawsuit
Texas
Labeeb Ibrahim Issa worked for the US Army in Iraq as a driver and general maintenance worker when he was injured in 2016 after being targeted for his work helping the US, according to a lawsuit filed on his behalf in US District Court for the Northern District of Texas on Tuesday. As a result of the attack, he broke his pelvis and was left confined to a wheelchair to be able to move. 
Because of threats related to his association with the US Army, Issa sought a special immigrant visa on January 13 and demonstrated the ongoing threat he was experiencing, according to court documents. He was granted the visa, which required that the United States confirm he poses no security threat to the country, the lawsuit states. 
Issa left Iraq, flying from Baghdad to Qatar, with plans of then traveling to the United States. In Qatar, however, he was told he would be sent back to Iraq due to Trump's travel ban, the lawsuit states. Later, Issa was told he could enter the United States after all, the lawsuit states. 
On January 30, Issa arrived at Dallas Fort Worth International Airport and was held by customs officials for 14 hours before an attorney could request an emergency hearing to have him released, according to the lawsuit. He was released 30 minutes later, his lawyers tell CNN. 
Read Issa's lawsuit
Washington state
"No one is above the law — not even the President," state Attorney General Bob Ferguson said in filing a motion for a restraining order to halt Trump's executive order. 
This was in addition to a complaint alleging that Trump's order is "separating Washington families, harming thousands of Washington residents, damaging Washington's economy, hurting Washington-based companies, and undermining Washington's sovereign interest in remaining a welcoming place for immigrants and refugees."
The attorney general says the travel ban violates the Constitution's First Amendment and Equal Protection guarantee, and it "contravenes the federal Immigration and Nationality Act." A federal court has issued a stay forbidding travelers detained in Washington from being sent back to their home countries. 
Read the Washington complaint
Pennsylvania
Three families denied entry to the United States at Philadelphia International Airport over the weekend plan to file two federal lawsuits against the Trump administration asking that family members be admitted into the country, according to the ACLU's Philadelphia chapter. At least one suit will be filed Tuesday in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, lawyers said. 
In one case, when family members of legal US citizens Sarmad and Sarah Asali arrived in Philadelphia from Doha, Qatar, they were told they could have their visas revoked or return on the next flight to Doha. 
The Asalis told CNN their family members -- who are Christian Orthodox, one of the most persecuted groups in Syria -- don't speak English well and were returned to Qatar. 
"I want my family here and safe regardless of what it takes," Sarmad Asali told CNN.
Added Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney in a statement, "The Trump administration very well may have just given these families a death sentence."
In another Pennsylvania case, an Iranian mother with a visa and two daughters studying for their doctorates in the United States experienced a similar situation and was sent back to Iran within two hours of her arrival, the ACLU says.
Read the Asali family's complaint
Vayeghan v. Kelly
Ali Khoshbakhti Vayeghan filed a motion in a California federal court for a temporary restraining order so that he could be released from Department of Homeland Security custody Saturday. Before a court could rule, according to court documents, it was ordered that Vayeghan be returned to Iran, via Dubai. 
Vayeghan sued, requesting that he be allowed to return to the United States under the terms of his previously approved visa. A federal judge granted his request, demanding that the court's order be immediately communicated to officers in Dubai who are holding Vayeghan.
US District Judge Dolly Gee gave the government until Friday to file its opposition and ordered a hearing next week. 
Read Gee's ruling
Massachusetts 
After the ACLU filed a lawsuit Sunday demanding the release of two University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth associate professors -- Iranian nationals who are permanent residents of the United States -- federal judges in Boston ruled Sunday that officials could not detain someone on the basis of Trump's travel ban. The professors, who both earned PhDs at Johns Hopkins University, were returning from an engineering conference. 
On Tuesday, state Attorney General Maura Healey said she is filing intervention papers in federal court challenging the executive order. 
"The executive order is harmful, discriminatory, and unconstitutional," Healey said at a press conference Tuesday.  "It discriminates on the basis of religion and national origin, denies our residents access to due process and equal protection of the law, and violates federal immigration law."
Read the Massachusetts lawsuit
New York
A federal judge in New York blocked part of the executive order Saturday, ruling that authorities could not remove individuals from seven Muslim-majority countries who had arrived in US airports with valid visas. It also ordered that a list of detainees be provided to the ACLU, but no list was provided. 
State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman asked for a list as well, as well as assurances that the Department of Homeland Security and US Customs and Border Protection were complying with the judge's order. On Monday, his office issued a statement:
"DHS has said that it will comply with the federal court orders. However, we continue to press both DHS and CBP to provide a full list of those who are currently detained and allow them access to legal service providers." 
On Tuesday, Schneiderman said his office would join a federal lawsuit, filed by the ACLU, the National Immigration Law Center and others, challenging the travel ban. Schneiderman called the ban unlawful and vowed to "protect the families caught in the chaos sown by President Trump's hasty and irresponsible implementation."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/30/politics/obama-donald-trump-travel-ban-statement/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjQreeVlPXRAhUEx2MKHTd8Dwk4UBCnAggrMAc&usg=AFQjCNEluQ6uWyQrPwV_ZS5Pu2qamrUxqQ
Obama 'fundamentally disagrees' with Trump's immigration order
By Dan Merica, CNNUpdated 11:02 PM ET, Mon January 30, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)Former President Barack Obama criticized President Donald Trump's executive order curbing immigration in a statement on Monday, backing protesters who have taken to the nation's airports to express their displeasure with Trump's action on Friday.Frm Pres @BarackObama is heartened by the level of engagement taking place in communities around the country. pic.twitter.com/X5Fk3xRDEXCNN's Kevin Liptak contributed to this report."The President fundamentally disagrees with the notion of discriminating against individuals because of their faith or religion," said Kevin Lewis, spokesman for the former president, in a statement.
Lewis added Obama feels the individuals protesting are "exactly what we expect to see when American values are at stake."
'I do feel safer': A look at Trump's travel ban supporters
This is first time Obama, who ceded power to Trump 10 days ago, has criticized the current president, breaking with an unwritten rule that former presidents refrain from criticizing the current White House occupant.
It is also the former president's first statement since leaving the White House.
The statement also rejected the comparison between a 2011 temporary immigration order by Obama that halted Iraqis coming to the US and the broader ban by the Trump administration on citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries.
Former presidents walk a fine line between staying political engaged and avoiding knocking their successor. President George W. Bush, for example, remained markedly silent on politics during Obama's eight years in office.
But Obama's relationship with Trump is different, and Monday's statement made clear that the former president will stay engaged and outspoken on political action.
Trump's order temporarily banned immigration from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Yemen and Somalia and indefinitely stopped Syrian refugees from coming to the United States.
Though the current White House has compared Trump's action to what Obama did in 2011 when "he banned visas for refugees from Iraq for six months," Obama's move was much narrower in scope. It was crafted in response to two Iraqi refugees implicated in a bomb making scheme and while it did not outright ban refugees from coming to the United States, it did increase the amount of vetting each Iraqi refugee received.
Trump defended his executive order Monday, in the wake of protests that popped up across the country. He said that America will "continue to show compassion to those fleeing oppression" but will "do so while protecting our own citizens and border."
"I have tremendous feeling for the people involved in this horrific humanitarian crisis in Syria," Trump said. "My first priority will always be to protect and serve our country, but as President I will find ways to help all those who are suffering."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/29/politics/us-servicemember-killed-in-raid-on-al-qaeda-in-yemen/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjQreeVlPXRAhUEx2MKHTd8Dwk4UBCnAgguMAg&usg=AFQjCNGeCQ_KGZHQuCj5NInXYGPtHJvXww
US servicemember killed in raid on al Qaeda in Yemen
By Ryan Browne, CNNUpdated 2:18 PM ET, Tue January 31, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)A US Navy Seal died of wounds suffered during a raid in Yemen against al Qaeda -- the first American combat death under President Donald Trump, US Central Command said Sunday.CNN's Hakim Al-Masmari and Tim Lister contributed to this report. Six other servicemembers also were wounded, all non-life threatening. 
On Monday, the Pentagon identified the service member who was killed as Chief Petty Officer William "Ryan" Owens.
President Donald Trump on Tuesday callled Owens' family, the White House said.
White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer described the call as a "very somber and lengthy conversation" with Owens' wife, father and children.
"Ryan gave his full measure for our nation, and in performing his duty, he upheld the noblest standard of military service," Defense Secretary James Mattis said. 
"In a successful raid against al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) headquarters, brave US forces were instrumental in killing an estimated 14 AQAP members and capturing important intelligence that will assist the US in preventing terrorism against its citizens and people around the world," Trump said in a statement Sunday.
"Americans are saddened this morning with news that a life of a heroic service member has been taken in our fight against the evil of radical Islamic terrorism," he added. "My deepest thoughts and humblest prayers are with the family of this fallen service member. I also pray for a quick and complete recovery for the brave service members who sustained injuries."
A US military official said the raid was not directed against specific individuals, but aimed at "site exploitation," a military term to describe intelligence-gathering actions.
Sources in Yemen told CNN that three senior al Qaeda leaders were among those killed. That was later confirmed by a US official. 
"We are deeply saddened by the loss of one of our elite servicemembers," Commander of US Central Command Gen. Joseph Votel said. "The sacrifices are very profound in our fight against terrorists who threaten innocent peoples across the globe."
Ongoing civil war
Central Command said an aircraft assisting in the operation experienced a hard landing, resulting in three US troops being injured. That aircraft, which a US defense official said was a V-22 Osprey, was unable to fly after the landing and was then intentionally destroyed in place.
The US operation resulted in an estimated total of 14 members of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) being killed and the capture of information that will likely provide insight into the planning of future terror plots.
A US defense official said the operation was authorized by Trump. The military said there were no civilian casualties as a result of the raid. 
American military raids in Yemen are rare. The US did conduct several drone strikes on AQAP targets there last week. 
Yemeni officials told CNN that the raid took place in the Gaifa region in Yemen's northern Baitha province.
US military officials believe AQAP is exploiting the ongoing civil war in Yemen to solidify its presence there.
Yemen is currently beset by a conflict between Houthi rebels, a minority Shia group from the north of the country, and the internationally recognized government led by President Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi. Saudi Arabia is leading a military intervention against the Houthis in support of the government.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/31/politics/chris-collins-tom-price-reply-all/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjQreeVlPXRAhUEx2MKHTd8Dwk4UBCnAggxMAk&usg=AFQjCNGOf7VBhMsInc_CRVNX-ftBCs9UhA
In accidental 'reply all' to reporter, Collins thanks CEO for defending HHS nominee
By MJ Lee, CNN National Politics ReporterUpdated 9:19 AM ET, Tue January 31, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)The head of an Australian pharmaceutical company is forcefully denying to CNN that Rep. Tom Price, President Donald Trump's pick to lead the Department of Human Services, was offered a special discounted rate of the firm's stocks. And in private, Rep. Chris Collins is cheering him on. 
Price's decision to buy shares in Innate Immunotherapeutics after learning about the firm from Collins, a fellow GOP congressman, has exacerbated ethics concerns surrounding his nomination, with Democrats warning that the investment has the appearance of insider trading. Both Price and Collins have denied these accusations.
Simon Wilkinson, the CEO of Innate Immunotherapeutics, emailed a CNN reporter late Monday with a detailed rebuttal of a Wall Street Journal report, which said Price had received a "privileged offer" to buy the company's stocks at a discount. 
Minutes later, Collins, using a personal email address, responded to both Wilkinson and the CNN reporter -- accidentally replying all to the original message that he had been bcc'd on. And it appeared that Collins is pleased with the company's defense of his colleague.
"Simon. Yellow journalism. Making the story fit a bias regardless of the facts. Distorted," the email began, in apparent reference to the WSJ report. "In fact the offer was made available to every US shareholder who had ever participated in any share offering in the US. Interesting how he somehow distorted that."
Collins, who both invests in and sits on the board of Innate Immunotherapeutics, continued on to say that "many US shareholders" -- including his own children -- declined to participate "because of the perceived risk."
First on CNN: Trump's Cabinet pick invested in company, then introduced a bill to help it
"Yet he would make the reader assume it was a slam dunk," Collins complained again about the WSJ writer, before ending the email with: "Thanks for clarifying. Chris."
Collins confirmed in a follow-up email to CNN Tuesday morning that he had "replied all by mistake," before venting his frustrations about a "witch hunt where the press goes after my friends and family."
In the case of Price's investment in Innate Immunotherapeutics, a "standard private placement" has been incorrectly portrayed as "some kind of insider special deal," Collins said. "I was venting to Simon as he shares my frustration."
Wilkinson also criticized the WSJ's report that Price received a privileged offer to buy the company's stock at a discount.
He told CNN that Price was offered the same price offered to existing Australian and New Zealand shareholders, as well as other US shareholders that met the criteria of "accredited investors."
Wilkinson also denied the WSJ's claim that "fewer than 20 US investors" including Price were invited last year to buy discounted shares of the company, described by the WSJ as "an opportunity that, for Mr. Price, arose from an invitation from a company director and fellow congressmen."
"This statement is NOT factually correct. All Australian and New Zealand shareholders (the company had about 2,400 shareholders at the time of whom 850 had actively supported share offerings over the previous 5 or more years) were 'invited' (offered) new shares at the same discount," Wilkinson said. "Our 'accredited' US resident shareholders were also made aware of the offering. About 600 AU/NZ shareholders and about 20 US shareholders/investors took up the 'invitation.'"
Wilkinson's vigorous defense of Price's stock purchase -- along with Collins airing his deep frustration -- came just hours ahead of the Senate Finance Committee's vote to send Price's nomination to the full Senate.
Despite vehement objections from Democrats, Price is widely expected to be confirmed as Trump's next HHS secretary in the Senate, where Republicans have a majority.
But the Georgia congressman and orthopedic surgeon appears poised to assume the prominent Cabinet position without having put to rest numerous conflicts of interest and ethics questions. As head of the HHS, Price will play an outsized role in the Trump administration's efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare.
In two confirmation hearings this month, Price was emphatic that he didn't do anything that crossed legal and ethical lines.
"Everything I did was ethical, above board legal and transparent," Price told the Senate Finance Committee last week.
