http://edition.cnn.com/2017/01/29/politics/rob-portman-trump-travel-ban/index.html%3Fsr%3DtwCNN012917rob-portman-trump-travel-ban0459PMStoryLink%26linkId%3D33899652&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjk4fOjlPXRAhUUImMKHeKIDK84WhCnAggVMAA&usg=AFQjCNGAxnZ9tyNUDi7OE_5qnHTskXsJiA
Uh-oh!
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/29/europe/uk-petition-president-trump-ban-trnd/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjk4fOjlPXRAhUUImMKHeKIDK84WhCnAggYMAE&usg=AFQjCNG0HzETj1rMyeY0hlK6sZtFPh7KgA
Travel ban: UK petition to stop Trump state visit hits 1 million
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Emanuella Grinberg, CNNUpdated 8:53 AM ET, Mon January 30, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.London (CNN)A petition to stop US President Donald Trump's making an official state visit to Britain had gained more than a million signatures by Monday,  in a backlash to Trump's controversial ban on citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States. What we know so farWhat it's like in the 7 impacted countriesCNN's Angela Dewan wrote from London.The petition to ban Trump from making the visit was created on the country's Government and Parliament website at the end of November, long before Trump's announcement, and had gained just 372 signatures in two months. 
News spread over the weekend of Trump's travel ban, and by 10 am on Monday, the number of signatures on the petition had soared, and it's still rising fast.
Graham Guest, the British lawyer who created the petition, said he had no specific issue or policy position in mind when he started the petition. It was just Trump the man, really.
"Maybe Trump's travel ban has angered people and they want him to know what it's like to be banned from a country," he wrote to CNN. 
The petition says Trump would be allowed into the country, but that an official state visit would "cause embarrassment to Her Majesty the Queen." 
"Donald Trump's well documented misogyny and vulgarity disqualifies him from being received by Her Majesty the Queen or the Prince of Wales. Therefore during the term of his presidency Donald Trump should not be invited to the United Kingdom for an official State Visit," the petition states.
This is not the first time Trump has faced such calls. In January last year, a petition to ban him from the UK after he made controversial remarks about Muslims gained almost 590,000 signatures and was debated in Parliament, with MPs from all major parties denouncing him. The proposed ban, however, did not go to a vote.
PM Theresa May: 'We do not agree'
British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson described Trump's travel ban as "divisive and wrong," while London Mayor Sadiq Khan said the move was "shameful and cruel."
Under intense pressure to take a position, Prime Minister Theresa May conceded Sunday, when one of her spokespeople said "we do not agree with this kind of approach," adding that immigration was a matter for the US to decide on its own.
"We've been very clear that the invitation has been extended and it has been accepted," a spokesperson for May said on Monday after the petition surpassed 1 million signatures.
"The UK and the US have a very strong and close relationship and it's right that we continue to work together. In terms of the petition being signed, it will be a matter for parliament now on whether it is debated."
May was the first foreign leader to meet officially with Trump, on Friday in Washington, where Trump accepted an invitation for a reciprocal visit.
According to the rules, any petition with 100,000 signatures or more automatically qualifies for consideration to be debated in Parliament, though there are no guarantees.
Will Guest attend the hearing if it pans out? "Absolutely!"
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/29/politics/how-the-trump-administration-chose-the-7-countries/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjk4fOjlPXRAhUUImMKHeKIDK84WhCnAggbMAI&usg=AFQjCNHB5wtxwxqeZ9CEKCtfVCatYxFsJw
How the Trump administration chose the 7 countries in the immigration executive order
By Kyle Blaine and Julia Horowitz, CNN Updated 1:52 PM ET, Mon January 30, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)The seven Muslim-majority countries targeted in President Trump's executive order on immigration were initially identified as "countries of concern" under the Obama administration. What we know so farWhat it's like in the 7 impacted countriesWhite House Press Secretary Sean Spicer on Sunday pointed to the Obama administration's actions as the basis for their selection of the seven countries. Trump's order bars citizens from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen from entering the U.S. for the next 90 days. 
"There were further travel restrictions already in place from those seven countries," Spicer said on ABC's "This Week." 
"What the president did was take the first step through this executive order of ensuring that we're looking at the entire system of who's coming in, refugees that are coming in, people who are coming in from places that have a history or that our intelligence suggests that we need to have further extreme vetting for."
Restrictions from Obama years broadened to a ban
In December 2015, President Obama signed into law a measure placing limited restrictions on certain travelers who had visited Iran, Iraq, Sudan, or Syria on or after March 1, 2011. Two months later, the Obama administration added Libya, Somalia, and Yemen to the list, in what it called an effort to address "the growing threat from foreign terrorist fighters."
The restrictions specifically limited what is known as visa-waiver travel by those who had visited one of the seven countries within the specified time period. People who previously could have entered the United States without a visa were instead required to apply for one if they had traveled to one of the seven countries.
Under the law, dual citizens of visa-waiver countries and Iran, Iraq, Sudan, or Syria could no longer travel to the U.S. without a visa. Dual citizens of Libya, Somalia, and Yemen could, however, still use the visa-waiver program if they hadn't traveled to any of the seven countries after March 2011. 
Trump's order is much broader. It bans all citizens from those seven countries from entering the U.S. and leaves green card holders subject to being rescreened after visiting those countries. 
The executive order specifically invoked the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. A senior Trump administration official also pointed to the 2015 shooting rampage in San Bernardino, California, to justify the President's orders although neither of the attackers in the shooting would've been affected by the new ban. 
Conflict of interest questions
In the hours after its release, many questioned why the list omitted other countries with direct links to those terror attacks. The 9/11 hijackers were from Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Lebanon.
Some also questioned whether Trump deliberately left off countries where he has business interests. 
The list does not include Muslim-majority countries where the Trump Organization does business, including Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates. In financial disclosure forms during the presidential campaign, he listed two companies with dealings in Egypt and eight with business in Saudi Arabia. And in the UAE, the Trump Organization is partnering with a local billionaire to develop two golf courses in Dubai.
White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said Sunday Trump's business ties had no influence over the countries selected for the travel ban. 
"Just like I said very clearly, the countries that were chosen in the executive order to protect Americans from terrorists were the countries that have already been identified by Congress and the Obama administration," Priebus said on "Meet the Press."
He added, "That does not mean that other countries wouldn't be added later to a subsequent executive order."
Ethics lawyers say the correlation illustrates the conflict of interest Trump has created by keeping an ownership stake in his business.
"Somalia is on the list, but Saudi Arabia is not. People from Somalia are going to say that's arbitrary. And one of the factors, people are going to say, is the president does business with Saudi Arabia but not Somalia," said Richard Painter, the chief ethics lawyer in the George W. Bush administration.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/29/entertainment/stranger-things-win-sag-awards-2017/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjk4fOjlPXRAhUUImMKHeKIDK84WhCnAggeMAM&usg=AFQjCNFSnQUIE79pvg50dr1XWq6vVhHBwQ
'Stranger Things' star's speech gets crowd on feet after show's surprise SAG Award win
By Sandra Gonzalez, CNNUpdated 5:21 AM ET, Mon January 30, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)The cast of "Stranger Things" won big at Sunday night's SAG Awards, and star David Harbour used his moment in the spotlight to deliver a speech that got some of his fellow actors on their feet.  "We will get past the lies. We will hunt monsters. And when we are at a loss amidst the hypocrisy and casual violence of certain individuals and institutions, we will, as per Chief Jim Hopper, punch some people in the face when they seek to destroy what we have envisioned for ourselves and the marginalized. And we will do it all with soul, with heart, and with joy. We thank you for this responsibility!" #DavidHarbour gave an impassioned speech tonight while accepting the award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series. #sagawards #davidharbour @sagawards #cnnsagawards #strangerthingsA video posted by CNN (@cnn) on Jan 29, 2017 at 7:27pm PST© 2017 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2017 Cable News Network. Harbour, who plays Chief Jim Hopper on the Netflix series, spoke for the cast as they took the stage to accept their award for best ensemble in a drama series. 
"This award from you, who take your craft seriously and earnestly believe, like me, that great acting can change the world is a call to arms from our fellow craftsmen and women to go deeper and, through our art, to battle against fear, self-centeredness and exclusivity of our predominantly narcissistic culture," he said. "And through our craft, cultivate a more empathetic and understanding society by revealing intimate truths that serve as a forceful reminder to folks that when they feel broken, and afraid and tired they are not alone." 
RELATED: SAG winners list: Who won what
Harbour's words caused his co-star Winona Ryder to pump her fist in the air. 
"We are united in that we are all human beings, and we are all together on this horrible, painful, joyous, exciting and mysterious ride that is being alive," Harbour said. 
Harbour ended his speech with a call to action on what was already a politically-charged evening. 
"Now, as we act in the continuing narrative of 'Stranger Things,' we 1983 midwesterners will repel bullies, we will shelter freaks and outcasts -- those who have no homes -- [and] we will get past the lies, we will hunt monsters and when we are lost amidst the hypocrisy and casual violence of certain individuals and institutions, we will as per Chief Jim Hopper, punch some people in the face when they seek to destroy the weak, and the disenfranchised and the marginalized and we will do it all with soul, with heart and joy," he said. 
"Hidden Figures" star Taraji P. Henson cheered from the crowd. "The People v. O.J. Simpson" star Courtney B. Vance stood from his seat. And "Orange is the New Black" cast member Lea DeLaria put two hands in the air. 
"We thank you for this responsibility," Harbour added. 
RELATED: Stars get animated on SAG Awards red carpet
Speaking backstage after the awards, Harbour said while the cast was not anticipating a win, he had written his speech because he's "bad at improvisation." 
"I did not want to go up there with nothing to say," he said, adding that the speech went through "many iterations." 
"I've had a lot of feelings and thoughts this last week and I wanted to express it in some way that dealt with what we do through our art," he said, making reference to the various executive orders put in place by President Donald Trump, without mentioning Trump by name. 
In the minutes after Harbour's speech, Ryder's animated on-stage reaction caught attention on the internet.
Harbour said he "didn't see her reaction," but claimed he did run the speech by some of his cast mates in advance. 
"I was very appreciative of their feedback," he said. 
"Stranger Things" beat out the likes of "Game of Thrones," Westworld," "Downton Abbey," and "The Crown" in the ensemble category.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/29/us/refugee-terrorism-trnd/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjk4fOjlPXRAhUUImMKHeKIDK84WhCnAgghMAQ&usg=AFQjCNEFIKRIc-tbVfhV8E3IrUtZgZmwmQ
How many fatal terror attacks have refugees carried out in the US? None
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Eric Levenson, CNNUpdated 6:54 PM ET, Sun January 29, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)Donald Trump first introduced the idea of a Muslim travel ban in December 2015, shortly after Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, shot and killed 14 people in San Bernardino, California.But President Trump's executive order temporarily banning all refugees and suspending travelers from seven Muslim-majority countries would not have applied to either Farook or Malik.
Nor would the travel ban have affected the perpetrators of any of the major Islamic terrorist attacks on American soil in recent years.
No person accepted to the United States as a refugee, Syrian or otherwise, has been implicated in a major fatal terrorist attack since the Refugee Act of 1980 set up systematic procedures for accepting refugees into the United States, according to an analysis of terrorism immigration risks by the Cato Institute.
Before 1980, three refugees had successfully carried out terrorist attacks; all three were Cuban refugees, and a total of three people were killed.
Since the Cato Institute analysis was published in September 2016, a Somalian refugee injured 13 people at Ohio State University in November in what officials investigated as a terrorist attack. No one died.
In fact, the primary perpetrators of the major terror attacks have mostly been US-born citizens or permanent legal residents originally from countries not included in the ban.
Here's a look at the origin stories of the terrorists who committed major attacks in the name of radical Islam in recent years, including those in San Bernardino, Orlando, Boston and New York.
San Bernardino attacks
Although San Bernardino inspired Trump's travel ban, neither of the shooters would have been affected by it. 
Farook, 28, was an American citizen born in Chicago. Malik, 29, was born and raised in Pakistan, and later lived in Saudi Arabia. She arrived in the United States on a K-1 fiancée visa and later became a permanent resident.
Trump's executive order bans travel from seven countries -- Libya, Sudan, Yemen, Somalia, Syria, Iraq and Iran -- but it does not ban travel from residents of Pakistan or Saudi Arabia. In addition, the K-1 fiancee program remains in place.
New York and New Jersey explosions
Ahmad Khan Rahimi faces an array of bombing, weapons and attempted murder charges in two on September 17, 2016, incidents. He is accused of detonating bombs in New Jersey and in New York's Chelsea neighborhood. The explosion in Chelsea injured 29 people.
Rahimi was born in Afghanistan and first came to the United States in 1995, following several years after his father arrived seeking asylum. Rahimi became a naturalized US citizen in 2011. He had recently spent time in Afghanistan and Pakistan, officials said.
Neither Afghanistan nor Pakistan is on Trump's list of banned countries.
Orlando Pulse nightclub shooting
Omar Mateen, the man who shot and killed 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando, was an American citizen living in Fort Pierce, Florida. He was born in New York, and his parents were from Afghanistan. 
His widow, Noor Salman, was arrested earlier this month on charges of obstruction of justice and aiding and abetting her husband's material support to ISIS. She grew up in Rodeo, California, and her parents immigrated to the United States from the West Bank in 1985, according to The New York Times.
Neither Afghanistan nor the West Bank is included on the list of banned countries.
Boston Marathon bombings
Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who carried out the Boston Marathon bombings in 2013, were born in Kyrgyzstan to parents originally from war-torn Chechnya. 
The Tsarnaev family arrived in the United States when Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was 8 years old, and they applied for and were granted political asylum. The process for applying for political asylum is different from the process of arriving as a refugee.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the younger brother, became a naturalized citizen in September 2012.
Chechnya and Kyrgyzstan are not included on the list of banned countries.
World Trade Center, September 11, 2001
Of the 19 people who hijacked four planes on September 11, 2001, 15 of them hailed from Saudi Arabia. Two were from the United Arab Emirates, one was from Egypt, and one was from Lebanon.
None of those countries is included on the list of banned countries.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/30/politics/trump-travel-ban-live-blog/index.html%3Fiid%3DEL&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjk4fOjlPXRAhUUImMKHeKIDK84WhCpAggoKAAwBg&usg=AFQjCNGK8D6XUT0rLfejwbS95B2XxcTQxg
Uh-oh!
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/28/us/syrian-family-trump-travel-ban/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjk4fOjlPXRAhUUImMKHeKIDK84WhCpAggrKAAwBw&usg=AFQjCNEu2LBMoRUgNGB6b6NX2ZkRqS4IAA
Syrian Christian family, visas in hand, turned back at airport
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Sarah Jorgensen, CNNUpdated 8:06 PM ET, Sun January 29, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)Two brothers, their wives and children left war-torn Syria with 16 suitcases and crossed the border into Lebanon. They were finally on their way to the United States after working for almost 15 years to join their family members stateside. But after a flight from Beirut to Doha, Qatar, and then to Philadelphia on Saturday, the two families were told to get on a flight back to Doha. It was because President Donald Trump had just signed an executive order denying citizens from seven countries, including Syria, entry into the United States.
Sarmad Assali and her daughter, Sarah, are among the relatives who were waiting to welcome the families to the United States. Sarmad Assali said they received a call from authorities Saturday morning telling them their relatives would not be allowed to enter the country.
The Assalis, US citizens who live in Allentown, Pennsylvania, weren't able to make contact with their family members until they were already headed back overseas. One of the brothers told Sarmad Assali they were not allowed to make calls or use the Internet while they were held.
According to the Assalis, their family members do not speak English very well and were told by authorities they could either be detained and have their visas taken away, or they could take the first flight back to Doha.
Frightened and facing a language barrier, the six family members chose the second option. Sarmad Assali told CNN she wished she had been able to speak with them, since she would have told them to stay until she could arrive with her attorney.
A long immigration journey
The Assalis are Orthodox Christians, a group that has faced extreme persecution in Syria. 
Their relatives, whom Sarmad and Sarah Assali did not want to identify for their protection, began their immigration process in 2003. In late 2015 they were finally approved to enter the United States on an F-4 visa for brothers and sisters of US citizens.
The relatives finalized their paperwork, immigration interviews and medical examinations during a 10-day trip to Jordan in late December last year.
The Assalis have helped bring family members to the United States before. In 2013, they were able to bring in one relative, and last month they were able to bring the brothers' sister and her daughter.
The brothers waited to join them until after they could pack up their homes in Syria, Sarmad Assali said.
"We bought them a house, we furnished it for them, to help them start a new life," she told CNN.
But that plan is now on hold until the family can figure out a legal route forward. They have been in touch with their congressman, Republican Charlie Dent, as well as attorneys to figure out a plan.
Dent took a very vocal stance Sunday on behalf of the Assali family. 
"I certainly agree that we can always improve our visa vetting and refugee vetting program, and I don't have any question about that," Dent said on CNN's "New Day Weekend." 
"But I think it's wrong in the case that I was dealing with, with the family already in flight when the order was issued, and having no idea at the time of arrival they would be turned around."
Mayor 'sickened' by situation
Their attorney, Jonathan Grode, has an emergency conference Sunday with other attorneys about the new regulations, Sarmad Assali said. 
"It makes me so sad that this great country is doing this to our Christians and to these people and to my family," Sarmad said.
Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney released a statement about the two families' plight. 
"I am sickened by reports that federal officials, without knowledge or cooperation of PHL Airport staff, detained and then turned away two Syrian families," Kenney said in the statement.
"By several accounts, these families waited months to obtain the proper documentation so they could come to our country legally. And still, they were sent back to a war-torn nation that has used chemical warfare against its own people. The Trump administration very well may have just given these families a death sentence."
Said Sarah Assali, "We're all feeling a lot of anger, a lot of disappointment in our government. ... It's against our ethics as Americans."
At a protest in front of Philadelphia International Airport's international arrivals terminal Sunday surrounded by a massive crowd of chanting supporters waving pro-immigrant signs, Tawfik Assali, the son of two of the people turned away and nephew of Sarmad and cousin to Sarah, told CNN he had been very excited to see his parents.
"I was, like, one hour-and-a-half away from them," he said. "I haven't seen them for three years, so, it was really hard for me to not hug them, to not be with them."
While attorneys are still working on the case, he and Sarah both said they were encouraged and felt support from the large crowd that turned out Sunday and the other people who had reached out to help the family. Sarah also said that her family will begin a GoFundMe page to support her family members' travel expenses and legal fees. 
"Thank you to everyone," Sarah told CNN. "We didn't expect this, we never thought we'd be in the position we're in now. So I'm very thankful. This is the America that we do know, and that we do love. And I'm just grateful."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/28/politics/white-house-holocaust-memorial-day/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjk4fOjlPXRAhUUImMKHeKIDK84WhCpAgguKAAwCA&usg=AFQjCNHPR_2KDzg6LEortVU9Xs93Hl_Edg
WH: No mention of Jews on Holocaust Remembrance Day because others were killed too
By Jake Tapper, Anchor and Chief Washington CorrespondentUpdated 8:40 PM ET, Thu February 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)The White House statement on International Holocaust Remembrance Day didn't mention Jews or anti-Semitism because "despite what the media reports, we are an incredibly inclusive group and we took into account all of those who suffered," administration spokeswoman Hope Hicks told CNN on Saturday.Hicks provided a link to a Huffington Post UK story noting that while 6 million Jews were killed by the Nazis, 5 million others were also slaughtered during Adolf Hitler's genocide, including "priests, gypsies, people with mental or physical disabilities, communists, trade unionists, Jehovah's Witnesses, anarchists, Poles and other Slavic peoples, and resistance fighters."
Asked if the White House was suggesting President Donald Trump didn't mention Jews as victims of the Holocaust because he didn't want to offend the other people the Nazis targeted and killed, Hicks replied, "it was our honor to issue a statement in remembrance of this important day."
The presidential reference to the "innocent people" victimized by the Nazis without a mention of Jews or anti-Semitism by the White House on International Holocaust Remembrance Day was a stark contrast to statements by former Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama.
Anti-Defamation League Director Jonathan Greenblatt tweeted that the "@WhiteHouse statement on #HolocaustMemorialDay, misses that it was six million Jews who perished, not just 'innocent people'" and "Puzzling and troubling @WhiteHouse #HolocaustMemorialDay stmt has no mention of Jews. GOP and Dem. presidents have done so in the past."
Asked about the White House explanation that the President didn't want to exclude any of the other groups Nazis killed by specifically mentioning Jews, Greenblatt told CNN that the United Nations established International Holocaust Remembrance Day not only because of Holocaust denial but also because so many countries -- Iran, Russia and Hungary, for example -- specifically refuse to acknowledge Hitler's attempt to exterminate Jews, "opting instead to talk about generic suffering rather than recognizing this catastrophic incident for what is was: the intended genocide of the Jewish people."
Downplaying or disregarding the degree to which Jews were targeted for elimination during the Holocaust is a common theme of nationalist movements like those seen in Russia and Eastern Europe, Greenblatt said.
Initially, after being asked about the ADL criticism and the omission of any mention of Jews or anti-Semitism, Hicks provided a statement from Ronald Lauder of the World Jewish Congress that seemed to criticize Greenblatt and the ADL.
"It does no honor to the millions of Jews murdered in the Holocaust to play politics with their memory," the Lauder statement read in part. "Any fair reading of the White House statement today on the International Holocaust Memorial Day will see it appropriately commemorates the suffering and the heroism that mark that dark chapter in modern history."
Editor's note February 2, 2017: This article has been updated to correct an erroneous statement by ADL director Jonathan Greenblatt about Poland's recognition of the Jewish victims of the Holocaust. The ADL has retracted that comment and apologized. "I made a mistake by including Poland as one of the countries which does not always recognize the Jewish people as the intended target of the Nazi genocide," Greenblatt said in a letter to the Polish ambassador. "I regret this mistake, and want to assure you that it was not intended as an affront to your government or the people of Poland."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/28/politics/trump-calls-putin-world-leaders/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjk4fOjlPXRAhUUImMKHeKIDK84WhCpAggxKAAwCQ&usg=AFQjCNFFRDWS_NjRTidpvpq9Mz6GOiH6Yg
Trump and Putin discuss stabilizing ties, Kremlin says
By Laura Smith-Spark and Ivan Watson, CNNUpdated 8:56 PM ET, Sat January 28, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)US President Donald Trump may be having his biggest day of diplomacy yet, speaking by phone Saturday with five world leaders -- most significantly Russia's Vladimir Putin and Germany's Angela Merkel.9 a.m. ET -- Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe11 a.m. ET -- German Chancellor Angela MerkelNoon ET -- Russian President Vladimir Putin2 p.m. ET -- French President François Hollande5 p.m. ET -- Australian Prime Minister Malcolm TurnbullCNN's Laura Goehler and Mansur Mirovalev contributed to this report.It was Trump's first phone conversation with the Russian President since his inauguration last week, and one whose outcome will be closely studied. 
CNN's Matthew Chance in Moscow said a Kremlin summary of the phone call talked about stabilizing the relationship between the two nations and several other subjects. Some of the other issues included restoring trade ties, international terrorism, the situations in Ukraine and the Korean Peninsula, and the coordination of military action against ISIS and other terrorist groups in Syria. 
The Kremlin call summary didn't specifically mention US sanctions against Russia. It said restoration of mutually beneficial economic ties "could further stimulate progressive and stable development of bilateral relations," according to a CNN translation of the Russian statement.
The White House called the one-hour chat a significant start to improving a relationship "in need of repair."
Both Trump and Putin said before the call that they would like to see warmer ties between their two nations. However, relations between Trump and his team and Russia have been under scrutiny following allegations that Moscow meddled in the US election last year.
Speaking Friday at his first White House news conference, Trump indicated a willingness to work with Moscow.
But he said it was "too early" to discuss removing sanctions that his predecessor, President Barack Obama, imposed on Russia.
"We're looking to have a great relationship with all countries," Trump said. "If we can have a great relationship with Russia and China and all countries, I'm all for that."
Friday night, however, a senior administration official said the current plan was not to lift the Russian sanctions.
The Kremlin had sought to lower expectations, suggesting Putin was calling as a matter of protocol to congratulate the US leader on his inauguration.
But there is excitement in Russia about a possible detente between Washington and Moscow under the Trump administration.
Besides imposing the Russian sanctions, Obama earlier this month expelled 35 Russian diplomats from the United States over alleged Russian interference in the 2016 election.
Flurry of calls
Before speaking with Putin, Trump held a call with Merkel and spoke to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, a key ally in Asia.
The 45-minute phone call between Trump and Abe included a discussion of the threat posed by North Korea, and both leaders agreed to speak face to face in Washington on February 10. 
Abe and Trump also discussed the significance of Defense Secretary James Mattis' upcoming visit to Asia, according to the White House.  
Later Saturday, Trump was to speak with French President François Hollande and Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. 
Trump's calls with Abe and Turnbull come days after he signed an executive order withdrawing the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or TPP, a massive trade deal negotiated by the Obama administration that Congress had not yet ratified. Both Abe and Turnbull supported TPP.
The call between Trump and Abe did not include a discussion on a replacement for the TPP, a high-ranking Japanese government official told reporters.
The flurry of telephone diplomacy comes a day after Trump received his first foreign leader at the White House, UK Prime Minister Theresa May, who announced that Trump will make a state visit to the United Kingdom.
In a speech to US Republicans, May urged Trump to tread carefully as he deals with Russia, saying: "With President Putin, my advice is to engage but beware."
Trump also spoke by phone Friday with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto after a row over Trump's plans for a wall along the US-Mexico border culminated in Peña Nieto canceling a planned trip to Washington.
Fences to mend?
Trump's call with the German Chancellor was likely not the easiest of the day.
In an interview this month with The Times newspaper in London and the German publication Bild, the US President called Merkel "by far the most important leader" in Europe -- but was critical of the welcome she has extended to refugees.
"I think she made one very catastrophic mistake and that was taking all of these illegals, you know taking all of the people from wherever they come from. And nobody even knows where they come from," Trump said in that interview.
He also appeared to undermine the European Union, currently grappling with the prospect of Britain's exit, saying: "You look at the European Union and it's Germany. Basically a vehicle for Germany. That's why I thought the UK was so smart in getting out."
Merkel, who is running for a fourth term in office later this year and faces criticism from political opponents over her refugee policy, declined to comment on Trump's remarks.
In their call Saturday, Trump and Merkel discussed NATO and other topics, officials said. 
"The leaders recognized that NATO must be capable of confronting 21st-century threats and that our common defense requires appropriate investment in military capabilities to ensure all Allies are contributing their fair share to our collective security," the White House reported. 
A German statement used the phrasing "common defense investment in military capabilities and a fair contribution of all allies."
Trump will attend the G20 summit in Hamburg, Germany, in July, the two statements said.
Hollande outspoken
Trump may also have to build bridges with France, traditionally a close ally of the United States.
Hollande, who plans to stand down as president this spring, was outspoken at a joint news conference Friday with Merkel about the "challenges" the Trump administration poses for Europe in terms of trade and global diplomacy.
"We of course have to speak to Donald Trump, as he was chosen by the Americans to be their president. But we have to do it with a European point of view and promote our interests and values," he said in Berlin. 
The French government said Hollande referred to NATO as indispensible and also told Trump the nuclear agreement with Iran needs to be respected and fully implemented. Hollande added that the nations should be vigilant with Tehran.
The French President told the new American leader that situation in Syria requires a political solution and the involvement of the United Nations, according to the French statement.
As to the crisis in eastern Ukraine, Hollande said sanctions must stay in place until the Minsk agreement is implemented.
The White House said Trump offered condolences for the loss of life in terrorist attacks in France and discussed his desire to cooperate more on counterterrorism and security.
"The leaders also lauded our combined efforts to eliminate ISIS in Iraq and Syria," the White House statement said.  It also said Trump, as in the other calls, reiterated the US committment to NATO and the importance of allies sharing costs.
