http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/politics/wh-new-or-expanded-settlements-may-not-be-helpful-in-achieving-peace/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjYssDsk_XRAhWJMGMKHdxgB-o4MhCnAggVMAA&usg=AFQjCNHjhV1Nmtx_NEXcCaL5HwYwLWhXvg
WH: New or expanded settlements 'may not be helpful in achieving' peace
By Kevin Liptak, CNN White House ProducerUpdated 11:02 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump's administration warned Thursday that new Israeli settlement activity could potentially hamper the peace process, a new stance for a White House that's remained adamant in its support for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.CNN's Laura Koran and Elise Labott contributed to this report.Despite the shift, the White House said it hadn't taken an official position on Israeli settlements, saying it would wait until Trump meets with Netanyahu later this month to formally develop a position.
"While we don't believe the existence of settlements is an impediment to peace, the construction of new settlements or the expansion of existing settlements beyond their current borders may not be helpful in achieving that goal," White House press secretary Sean Spicer said in a statement.
"The Trump administration has not taken an official position on settlement activity and looks forward to continuing discussions, including with Prime Minister Netanyahu when he visits with President Trump later this month," Spicer said.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson spoke with Netanyahu Thursday, the State Department said. Tillerson "stressed America's steadfast commitment to its key allies and partners as it works to protect the interests and safety of the American people," a State Department statement said, adding that Tillerson also spoke with his German, Mexican and Canadian counterparts.
It was not immediately clear if Tillerson spoke with Netanyahu before or after the White House's statement on settlements, though the White House statement was issued during the middle of the night in Israel.
Netanyahu is due at the White House for talks on February 15. Israel announced a large new expansion of projects shortly after Trump was sworn in.
In response to a request for comment from CNN on the White House statement, the Israeli Prime Minister's Office issued its own statement: "Prime Minister Netanyahu looks forward to his meeting with President Trump on February 15th in which they will speak about a wide range of issues, including (settlements)."
Trump lambasted the previous administration for allowing a United Nations Security Council resolution to pass that condemned Israel's settlements. The move drove a wedge between the incoming and outgoing administrations during the transition period after Trump spoke out vocally against the resolution.
Shortly after taking office, Trump spoke with Netanyahu in a conversation that both sides described as warm.
Israel since then has announced new plans to establish a settlement in the West Bank, replacing the illegal Amona construction that was demolished this week. 
The new settlement would be the first in almost 20 years in the West Bank, and the creation of thousands of homes in the area is seen as an attempt by Netanyahu to appease his right-wing base in the wake of the evacuation of the  Amona outpost.
President Barack Obama was sharply critical of settlement activity, a stance that caused friction between himself and Netanyahu. Trump, meanwhile, has signaled a more tolerant view, naming a US ambassador to Israel, David Friedman, who supports an expansion of settlements.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/us/delaware-prison-standoff/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjYssDsk_XRAhWJMGMKHdxgB-o4MhCnAggYMAE&usg=AFQjCNGJd4skjOfTcJ6PB-GDflqGoiwIuA
Delaware prison standoff over; corrections officer dead
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Eliott C. McLaughlin and Madison Park, CNNUpdated 9:50 PM ET, Thu February 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)A 19-hour standoff at a Delaware prison ended Thursday, but not before one of the corrections officials taken hostage by prisoners was found dead in the facility, the state Department of Correction said. CNN's Chris Boyette, Darran Simon, Samira Said, Chuck Johnston, Noah Gray and Joe Johns contributed to this report. Sgt. Steven Floyd, a 16-year veteran of the department, was found unresponsive and was pronounced dead at 5:29 a.m., minutes before authorities secured the scene at the James T. Vaughn Correctional Center in Smyrna, officials said. 
Authorities did not provide a cause of death for Floyd, 47, saying an autopsy will be conducted. 
Another prison official who had been taken hostage was rescued from the prison's C Building. She was treated at a local hospital. 
"She is alert and well," Perry Phelps, the state corrections commissioner, said in a news conference.
Harrowing hours
Shortly after 10:30 a.m. Wednesday, a corrections officer radioed for help in a building that houses about 120 inmates. It's unclear what triggered the call for assistance. 
It's also unclear what weapons the inmates used. Police were told they had "sharp instruments," according to Robert Coupe, secretary of Delaware's Department of Safety and Homeland Security.
The all-male facility, the largest in the state, was placed on lockdown and surrounded by police. By the time backup arrived, four corrections employees, including a female counselor, had been taken hostage, police said. 
Over the course of the standoff, 46 inmates exited the building, officials said, but Coupe warned reporters that all 120 inmates in C Building, including those 46, are still considered suspects.   
"I would not say that they were released. They came out of the building," he told reporters.
About 2:30 p.m., one officer was released and taken to a hospital with injuries not considered life-threatening, officials said. 
Shortly before 8 p.m., a second officer was let go, Coupe said. A helicopter with CNN affiliate WPVI-TV showed footage of the second hostage being wheeled out on a stretcher. That person underwent a health evaluation, Coupe said. 
At 10:52 p.m., three maintenance workers who had been hiding in the basement made their way to the rooftop, where police were able to rescue them, Phelps said.
The barricades
During negotiations, the prisoners demanded that the water be turned back on in C Building. Authorities obliged, Coupe said, believing that the demand was related to hydration and hygiene. 
But the prisoners used the water to fill metal foot lockers -- roughly 18 by 24 inches in size -- which they used to construct walls barricading the building's entrances, Coupe said. 
Negotiations wore on through Wednesday. Prisoners, using a radio taken from a correctional officer, demanded better conditions at the prison, including education, rehabilitation programs and improved training for prison guards, according to radio traffic picked up by CNN reporters. 
State and federal negotiators cautioned the prisoners that these were things that would not happen overnight. 
The radio traffic also indicated that a negotiator was concerned about a woman being held hostage and repeatedly asked to talk to a male hostage, to no avail. 
Coupe said, at one point, authorities became aware that someone was streaming the negotiations on the Internet and put a stop to it.
Prisoners contact paper
Prisoners not only issued demands to negotiators, but they also called The News Journal in Wilmington, Delaware, according to the newspaper. Several people spoke to a reporter, including a woman identified as a therapist, whose voice was quavering during the call. 
A man, who told the paper he was not permitted to provide his name, got on the phone and said he didn't know the identities of the hostage takers because they were wearing masks. The man said he wanted to convey the prisoners' demands, but the connection was choppy and abruptly cut off. 
A second man called later and pointed fingers at the newly elected President of the United States. 
"Donald Trump. Everything that he did. All the things that he's doing now. We know that the institution is going to change for the worse," the newspaper quoted the man as saying. "We got demands that you need to pay attention to, that you need to listen to, and you need to let them know."
He complained of abusive treatment and said the inmates want better education and rehabilitation programs, along with transparency in how tax dollars are spent on those programs.
"If they keep on playing games, (it's) going to get ugly," he told the paper. 
Plan B
During the negotiations, authorities realized the doors to C Building had been barricaded and began efforts to secure a "breach vehicle" to enter the building. None was immediately available, though Maryland State Police said it would provide one, Coupe said. 
Before the vehicle could arrive, police decided they could wait no longer. About 5 a.m. Thursday, they used a state Department of Correction backhoe to breach C Building and enter the prison, Coupe said.  
A few minutes later, police discovered the female correction official, who indicated "there were inmates that actually shielded this victim," Coupe said. She was not injured but was taken to a hospital for evaluation, he said. 
All the prisoners remaining in C Building were removed, searched, sent to an infirmary and put in new cells, he said. Investigators then began "going cell by cell collecting evidence."
The facility, with three narrow hallways and a central hub, is about 90 miles east of Washington, and houses 2,500 inmates who are in minimum-, medium- and maximum-security cells. Death row inmates are also held there.  
C Building is the area where prisoners who are being transferred from minimum- to medium-security cells are held, along with inmates who are being downgraded from maximum security to medium security, Coupe said. 
Gov. John Carney said in a news conference he is praying for the fallen officer's family and praised the officers who "go to work every day knowing they may not go home, as do their families."
In a statement, the governor said the top priority is to determine what happened and how it unfolded over the course of the "long and agonizing situation." That includes holding those responsible accountable and making "whatever changes are necessary to ensure nothing like it ever happens again," he said.
Carney ordered the state's flags to be flown at half-staff.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/health/trump-drugs-propecia/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjYssDsk_XRAhWJMGMKHdxgB-o4MhCnAggbMAI&usg=AFQjCNFiySrts8Wuv1a3BnuaS3qpHROM1A
Trump is taking hair loss drug, doctor says
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Susan Scutti, CNNUpdated 3:03 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)President Trump is taking a prostate drug often prescribed for hair loss, his physician Dr. Harold N. Bornstein told the New York Times in an interview published Wednesday. He also made a point of stating that the President has all of his hair.  See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.The New York City gastroenterologist also said the President is taking antibiotics to control rosacea, a skin condition that causes redness.
A senior White House official says Bornstein did not have Trump's permission to speak about his health to the Times.
The physician told the Times he has had no contact with his patient since Trump became president. Trump had visited his office every year since 1980 for annual checkups, colonoscopies and other routine tests. 
During the campaign, Trump's longtime physician disclosed only that he was taking rosuvastatin and low-dose aspirin to reduce his risk of heart attack. 
Bornstein came under scrutiny for a letter he wrote describing Trump's physical health that concluded, "If elected, Mr. Trump, I can state unequivocally, will be the healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency."
Other doctors found the letter's conclusion unprofessional and said Bornstein had used strange wording and medically incorrect terms when referring to his high-profile patient. Bornstein told CNN in September that he was rushed for time and had patients to see when writing the letter. 
What is Propecia? 
Propecia is a lower-dose formulation of finasteride that is prescribed to men with enlarged prostate glands under the brand name Proscar. 
Originally, the Food and Drug Administration approved finasteride 5 mg (Proscar) in 1992 for the treatment of "bothersome symptoms in men" with an enlarged prostate, which is also referred to as benign prostatic hyperplasia. At that time, the FDA also approved Proscar to reduce the need for surgery related to an enlarged prostate and possible urine retention.
In 1997, the agency approved a lower-dose formulation of finasteride (Propecia) for the treatment of male pattern hair loss, a gradual thinning that leads to either a receding hairline or balding on the top of the head. The FDA does not permit Propecia for treating hair loss in women or children. 
"It is a very common medication," said Dr. Louis Kavoussi, chairman of urology at Northwell Health in New Hyde Park, NY.  He added that finasteride has been around for decades, so its long-term safety has been demonstrated.
The drug, which blocks the body's production of male hormones, is in a class of medications called 5-alpha reductase inhibitors.
"The effectiveness varies," said Kavoussi, who has no ties to Merck or the companies that make generic versions of finasteride. Though some men who take it for hair loss find it "very effective," others do not. "Same for prostate," he said. "Some men gain quite a bit of symptom relief, other men more modest. It depends on the patient."  
Possible side effects of the finasteride include decreased libido, problems with erection and ejaculation, pain in the testicles and depression. According to drugmaker Merck's prescribing information, patients taking the drug should promptly notify their doctor if they experience changes in their breasts, rash, itching, hives, swelling of the face or hands, or difficulty breathing or swallowing.
According to Kavoussi, "most men tolerate it pretty well." Those who do get side effects simply stop taking the medicine, and the effects resolve.
For some years, Merck has been a defendant in liability lawsuits regarding Propecia/Proscar. 
About 1,370 lawsuits have been filed as of September 30 by people who claim that they have experienced persistent sexual side effects after cessation of treatment with Propecia and/or Proscar.  About 50 of the plaintiffs also allege that the drug has caused or can cause prostate cancer, testicular cancer or male breast cancer.  
Dr. Irwin Goldstein, founder of San Diego Sexual Medicine, is serving as an expert witness against Merck in the ligation, work for which he is being paid. He said people come to his clinic "from all over the world" for help with finasteride-associated symptoms. 
Many patients experience "a sudden or significant change in libido," he said, while another common side effect is erectile dysfunction. Along with these sexual effects, Goldstein said the drug can cause problems with both mood and cognition, including harmful effects on memory and decision-making.
Some patients believe they suffer from "post-finasteride syndrome," in which their symptoms continue after they stop taking the drug. 
As of March 2015, the syndrome is listed on the National Institutes of Health's Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center, with the disclaimer that this is not intended as "official recognition" of the syndrome. Still, the National Institutes of Health has sponsored studies, which are now underway, to better understand the effects of finasteride.  
"You don't want people to shy away -- and that's the bad thing about lawsuits; people get the impression that something is very bad," Kavoussi said, adding, "it's helped a lot of men." 
Merck listed 2015 sales of the drug at $183 million, down from a peak of $447 million in 2010. Other drug manufacturers began producing generic versions in 2013.
Efforts to contact Bornstein for comment have not been successful.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/01/foodanddrink/sushi-kitkat-japan/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjYssDsk_XRAhWJMGMKHdxgB-o4MhCnAggeMAM&usg=AFQjCNEGbCsV49CVOcOrqeu5vSoS0W04KQ
KitKat sushi: Has Japan gone too far?  
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Karla Cripps, CNNUpdated 7:35 PM ET, Wed February 1, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)KitKat has just released images of its wild new "sushi" sets and we can't decide whether to be relieved or upset about the fact they're only available for a limited time. The bars come in three flavors, which fortunately don't taste anything like the varieties of sushi they're modeled to look like -- unless you count the seaweed. 
There's tuna sushi, which actually tastes like raspberry. The seaweed wrapped sushi omelet is really a pumpkin pudding KitKat. 
Lastly, the sea urchin sushi is a Hokkaido melon with mascarpone cheese KitKat.
All three have a base made of puffed rice with white chocolate and a hint of wasabi.  
MORE: How Japan went crazy for KitKats
Inspired by an April Fool's Day joke
KitKat has long been famed for venturing into unusual territory in Japan. 
Wasabi, lemon vinegar and sake are among the 300 varieties of KitKat bars to go on sale there since the early 2000s. 
Some versions have managed to find fans in overseas markets, too, with green tea-flavored KitKats now available in shops worldwide.   
But this is the first time the brand has ever released a set inspired by sushi.   
Reps from KitKat owner Nestle say it all started with a 2016 April Fool's Day social media post featuring a mock advertisement for sushi KitKats. 
The response was so strong they decided to go ahead and create a few for real. 
Miki Kanoh of Nestle Japan's Corporate Affairs Group tells CNN the special edition sets will be given out to visitors who spend a minimum of 3,000 yen ($26.47) at Tokyo's newest KitKat Chocolatory shop, located in Ginza, from February 2-14.  
The Ginza branch will be the ninth Chocolatory but the first on ground level. Befitting its location in Tokyo's swankiest neighborhood, shop visitors will have access to new and more luxurious services, says Nestle. 
As with all Chocolatory stores, it will offer a huge range of KitKat items, many of which come in beautiful gift packaging. 
Sometime in the next few months a cafe serving KitKat-based items will open on the second floor as well. 
Visitors will also get to create their own original KitKats using the toppings of their choice.  
KitKat Chocolatory Ginza
MORE: 25 Japanese foods we can't live without
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/02/politics/trump-flag-military-convoy-trnd/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjYssDsk_XRAhWJMGMKHdxgB-o4MhCnAgghMAQ&usg=AFQjCNE9dtlgfRNzlBbUSw3uNQyIxptzqw
The Navy wants to know who flew a Trump flag on a military convoy
By Christina Zdanowicz, CNNUpdated 7:57 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)Drivers fly all sorts of flags from their vehicles, but it's not every day you see a military convoy sporting something other than the US flag.A Trump flag was spotted on a military convoy driving outside Louisville, Kentucky, on Sunday. The US Navy confirmed to CNN that the Humvees were being driven by an East Coast Naval Special Warfare unit -- also known as a Navy SEALs unit.
Flying certain flags from military vehicles is allowed, but a blue Trump flag waving in the wind is not one of them.
"Department of Defense and Navy regulations prescribe flags and pennants that may be displayed as well as the manner of display," said Navy Public Affairs Officer Lt. Jacqui Maxwell. "The flag shown in the video was unauthorized."
The Navy has started a command inquiry on this incident.
The Humvees in the video are based in Fort Knox, Kentucky, she added. The convoy was traveling between two military training areas.
The Facebook video showing the convoy had been viewed almost 80,000 times before it was removed Thursday afternoon. 
The responses to the video were harsh, with some people blasting the person who filmed it while driving, to others who told the world to get used to President Trump being the commander in chief.
"Good lord, get over it already, he's the president and it will be that way for 4 years!!" said one Facebook commenter.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/01/europe/hitler-phone-auction/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjYssDsk_XRAhWJMGMKHdxgB-o4MhCnAggkMAU&usg=AFQjCNEMZ6Uu9NLnDEAm7A0J0bJqJXEIgw
Hitler's phone, 'which sent millions to their deaths,' to be sold at auction
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Judith Vonberg, CNNUpdated 12:25 PM ET, Wed February 1, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.London (CNN)Adolf Hitler's telephone, recovered from the Fuhrerbunker and kept in a box at an English country house since 1945, will be sold at auction in the United States later this month.The phone was presented to Hitler by the Wehrmacht and was used by the Nazi leader to issue most of his commands during the last two years of World War II, according to a description in the catalog for Alexander Historical Auctions in Maryland.
Made by Siemens as a black Bakelite phone, it was later painted red and engraved with Hitler's name and a swastika, the catalog says.
The auction house describes the telephone as "Hitler's mobile device of destruction" and called it "arguably the most destructive 'weapon' of all time, which sent millions to their deaths around the world."
British officer Ralph Rayner recovered the phone from Hitler's bunker while visiting Berlin on the orders of Field Marshall Bernard Montgomery just a few days after the end of the war, according to Rayner's personal account and shipping documents from that time period, according to the auction house. 
His son Ranulf Rayner, 82, inherited the phone after his father's death in 1977. "My father didn't see it as a relic of Hitler's glory days, more a battered remnant of his defeat, a sort of war trophy," he told CNN. "He never thought it would become an important artifact."
Sent to the shattered German capital to establish contact with the Russian forces who had captured the city, Ralph Rayner was probably the very first non-Soviet victor to enter Hitler's bunker.
"He could still smell burning flesh," Ranulf Rayner said, recalling his father's description of the underground shelter where Hitler spent his final days. In his words, it was a "dreadful hellhole." 
First offered the black telephone found in the room of Eva Braun, Hitler's bride, Ralph Rayner instead chose the red phone next to Hitler's bed. "He told the Russians that red was his favorite color," Ranulf Rayner said, "which the Russians rather liked."
In a letter to his wife Elizabeth on May 18, 1945, Ralph Rayner wrote of the "utter horror" he witnessed in Berlin, but did not mention the remarkable souvenir he had in his possession.
If British soldiers were caught looting from the Germans, Ranulf Rayner explained, they would face a court martial.
Ralph Rayner returned to Devon in western England with both the phone and a porcelain model of an Alsatian, also taken from the bunker, hidden in his suitcase.
The china dog, made by slave laborers at Dachau concentration camp and probably presented to Hitler by Heinrich Himmler, SS chief and architect of the Final Solution, is also due to be auctioned. 
"It's a pretty nasty thing, just as sinister as the phone," said Ranulf Rayner.
He hopes these objects will be bought by a museum, rather than a private collector. "I don't want them to be hidden again," he said. "I want them to remind the world of the horrors of war."
The auction house estimates the phone will be sold for $200,000-$300,000 and the Alsatian figure for $25,000-$35,000.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/31/politics/gorsuch-supreme-court-hardiman/index.html&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjYssDsk_XRAhWJMGMKHdxgB-o4MhCnAggnMAY&usg=AFQjCNGOWc2B3z00YcVJTYgvPQLOX-9cYQ
Spicer: Judge Hardiman didn't drive to DC
By Ariane de Vogue, Pamela Brown and Jeff Zeleny, CNNUpdated 5:44 AM ET, Wed February 1, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)In the end, Judge Thomas Hardiman only drove a few hours east of Pittsburgh.  "The reality is that to the best of my knowledge he never left the state of Pennsylvania," White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Tuesday night after the announcement. "He never was in DC, nor did he ever leave the commonwealth." 
The Trump administration was taking extraordinary measures to build suspense and keep the final selection for its Supreme Court nominee under wraps for as close to the announcement as possible. Hardiman and Neil Gorsuch, both federal appellate judges, were the established favorites. 
Gorsuch got the nod at the White House Tuesday night, and it turns out Hardiman never made it to Washington.
White House sources acknowledged Tuesday night they left the impression with reporters that he was coming to Washington. Hardiman appeared to play along. One source said Hardiman was given the sense that there could be a spot for him should another vacancy open up. 
Sources inside the White House and close to Hardiman said earlier Tuesday that Hardiman was asked to come to Washington. Other news outlets reported before the announcement that Hardiman was going to be at the White House event, though CNN was never told that was the intent.  
After he was seen leaving his Pittsburgh home, a CNN producer last saw Hardiman again at a highway gas station more than 100 miles east of Pittsburgh in the direction of Washington.
But earlier in the day, sources told CNN that both finalists were being brought to Washington ahead of Tuesday's White House announcement.
One source said that Gorsuch was told it was likely him. Those close to the process warned that until it was announced, Trump could change his mind. 
"He likes a contest," one person close to the process said of Trump.
Two packets of briefing materials were being prepared to give senators Tuesday night: Gorsuch and Hardiman. But one person said the "Gorsuch packet" was full and complete, while Hardiman's was little more than biographical.
One person close to the process said Trump doesn't view runner-up as a bad thing. "There will be other openings on the court, so the person not picked will be runner-up," this person said. 
Key Trump selections have been dramatic before. When he was selecting his vice presidential choice it was reported that even after Mike Pence was selected but before it was announced, Trump asked his team if he could change his mind.  Additionally, after CNN reported that Trump was set to announce General James Mattis to be his secretary of defense at a rally, his team openly denied the choice in the hours before Trump went ahead and announced it on stage.
This story has been updated throughout to reflect new reporting on Hardiman's activities and the White House's plans. 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/01/health/fast-food-packaging-chemicals-pfas-study/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjYssDsk_XRAhWJMGMKHdxgB-o4MhCnAggvMAg&usg=AFQjCNGLrixSCEm77yJMpMnd2sWmKShayw
Report finds chemicals in one-third of fast food packaging
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Ben Tinker, CNNUpdated 8:33 AM ET, Wed February 1, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)Most of the time, when you order fast food, you know exactly what you're getting: an inexpensive meal that tastes great but is probably loaded with fat, cholesterol and sodium.See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.But it turns out that the packaging your food comes in could also have a negative impact on your health, according to a report published Wednesday in the journal Environmental Science & Technology Letters. 
The report found fluorinated chemicals in one-third of the fast food packaging researchers tested.
These chemicals are favored for their grease-repellent properties.
Along with their use in the fast food industry, fluorinated chemicals -- sometimes called PFASs -- are used "to give water-repellant, stain-resistant, and non-stick properties to consumer products such as furniture, carpets, outdoor gear, clothing, cosmetics (and) cookware," according to a news release that accompanied the report. 
"The most studied of these substances (PFOSs and PFOAs) has been linked to kidney and testicular cancer, elevated cholesterol, decreased fertility, thyroid problems and changes in hormone functioning, as well as adverse developmental effects and decreased immune response in children."
These are long-chain PFASs that have largely been phased out, in favor of shorter-chain compounds that are thought to have shorter half-lives in the human body, but these shortened forms have not yet been thoroughly studied.
As these chemicals are used in many everyday products, consumers are exposed to them frequently, and the same health effects may not be true for all of them.
Previous studies have shown that PFASs can migrate from food packaging into the food you eat, said Laurel Schaider, a research scientist at the Silent Spring Institute and one of the authors of the paper.
"These studies have found that the extent of migration depends on the temperature of the food, the type of food and how long the food is in contact with the paper," Schaider said. "And it depends on which specific chemical" is in the packaging.
What constitutes a bad (w)rap?
Scientists at the five institutions that collaborated on the report collected more than 400 samples of fast food packaging from 27 leading US chains.
The types of packaging were split into six categories: food contact paper (sandwich wrappers and pastry bags), food contact paperboard (boxes for fries or pizza), non-contact paper (outer bags), paper cups, other beverage containers (milk and juice containers) and miscellaneous (lids).
Food contact papers were divided into three subcategories: sandwiches, burgers and fried foods; Tex-Mex; and desserts and breads.
Food contact paper fared the worst, with 46% of all samples testing positive for fluorine. Food contact paperboard was next, at 20%, followed by other beverage containers at 16%. Non-contact paper, paper cups and miscellaneous all tested negative for fluorine.
The researchers did not provide any chain-specific data in order to compare fast food restaurants or determine which brands scored better or worse than average.
"For foodservice packaging that requires a barrier coating, 'short chain' fluorochemicals are used today, so it's no surprise that the study would find these chemicals," said Lynn M. Dyer, President of the Foodservice Packaging Institute in the US. "These, like all packaging products, go through rigorous testing to ensure that they meet stringent US Food and Drug Administration regulations, providing the safe delivery of foods and beverages to consumers."
Dryer added, however, that "some fluorochemical-free products have been introduced since this study was conducted in 2014 and 2015," meaning there are now a greater numbers of options available for fast food chains to provide oil, grease and/or water resistance.
What's a consumer to do?
Short of asking that your next burger be served in between two lids, there isn't a whole lot you can do to avoid PFAS exposure once you've chosen to eat at a fast food restaurant.
"Unfortunately, for consumers, there's no easy way to tell -- just by looking at packaging -- whether or not it contains fluorinated chemicals," Schaider said. "For people who wish to reduce their exposure to these chemicals, they may be able to take some steps ... to reduce that migration from packaging into food -- for instance, by taking the food out of the packaging sooner rather than later."
You could also ask that your fries or dessert be served in a paper cup or a noncontact paper bag. This is the outer bag all your items are usually put into when you get your food.
More than anything, Schaider urges consumers to put pressure on their favorite fast food chains to switch to packaging that doesn't contain fluorinated chemicals.
"I think that this study provides yet another reason to support the idea that eating more fresh food and more home-cooked meals is better for our health," she said, "but it's hard to avoid the convenience of fast food, especially in people's busy lives."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/01/health/tree-man-syndrome-girl-bangladesh/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjYssDsk_XRAhWJMGMKHdxgB-o4MhCnAggyMAk&usg=AFQjCNHJvvXyQkgPagxoBZz6whxUnTb1eg
Young girl diagnosed with 'tree man' syndrome in Bangladesh
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Sugam Pokharel, CNNUpdated 3:49 PM ET, Wed February 1, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)A 10-year-old girl in Bangladesh is being treated for the extremely rare condition known as "tree man" syndrome.See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.Sahana Khatun was admitted to Dhaka Medical College and Hospital on Sunday with unusual marks and growths on her face. 
"She has bark-like warts growing on her chin, nose and ear," Dr. Samanta Lal Sen, chief plastic surgeon at the hospital, told CNN. 
Sahana first developed the disease eight years ago, when her father found some rashes on her face. Only since last year have the tree-like warts begun sprouting on her face. 
The symptoms are thought to be that of epidermodysplasia verruciformis, a rare, heritable disease; there have only been a handful cases reported around the world. Those with the condition are likely to develop malignant skin tumors. 
"We don't know yet if this is (one) hundred percent a 'tree man' syndrome, but it definitely is a variety of the epidermodysplasia verruciformis, disease which causes very unusual skin disorder," Lal Sen said.
The condition is caused by a defect in the immune system which increases one's susceptibility to cutaneous HPV, or human papillomavirus. 
Sahana lost her mother when she was 6 and lives with her father, a laborer. 
"Due to a weak financial condition of the family, (the) hospital is bearing all of their medical and personal costs" Lal Sen said. 
Doctors at the hospital are planning to operate and remove Sahana's lesions as early as next week. 
Lal Sen said her condition is not very serious and since she has a milder form of the disease, the team is confident that they can clear Sahana's face within one surgery. 
'I want to live like a normal person'
Abul Bajandar, the well-known "tree man" of Bangladesh is going through treatment at the same hospital.  
After many groundbreaking surgeries, doctors were able to remove the tree-like branches that were growing out from his fingers, palms and feet. 
Bajandar, 27, lived with his growths for years before beginning surgery to remove the them last February. Since then he has had 19 procedures to restore his hands, and will undergo a few before he is released from the hospital.
Before the surgery, Bajandar could not eat, drink, brush his teeth or take a shower by himself. The only thing he could do was scratch his neck.
Lal Sen told CNN that Bajandar is now in "very good shape," and can eat and write using his own hands. The final procedures, he said, are more for "beautification."
"I want to live like a normal person. I just want to be able to hold my daughter properly and hug her," Bajandar told CNN last year.
The doctors hope to now offer similar hope to young Sahana.
