http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/politics/donald-trump-approval-rating/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwiagO2Lk_XRAhUC4mMKHSXqDQAQpwIIFTAA&usg=AFQjCNFuVXCKOLehWyYDXCNuikFMeRtNig
First Trump approval rating lags behind past presidents
By Jennifer Agiesta, CNN Polling DirectorUpdated 4:21 PM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)It's been two weeks since Donald Trump's inauguration, and the new President's work so far hasn't impressed the American people.A majority, 53%, disapprove of the way the President is handling his job, according to a new CNN/ORC poll, marking the highest disapproval for a new elected president since polls began tracking those results. Trump is the only President to hold a net-negative rating this early in his tenure.
Read the poll results
Overall, 44% approve of the way he's handling the job, seven points below the previous low-point of 51%. Further, the share who disapprove "strongly" of Trump's work as president is nearly as large as the total block who approve, 43% feel intensely negative about Trump. Partisanship is the sharpest divider in opinions on Trump (90% of Republicans approve vs. 10% of Democrats).
Trump's high disapproval most clearly differentiates his ratings from those of his predecessors. While Ronald Reagan's first approval rating measure of 51% from Gallup in 1981 was not that far above Trump's 44% now, Reagan's disapproval number was far lower than Trump's (13% to 53%). And George W. Bush, the last president to be elected without capturing the popular vote, held a far more positive 57% overall approval rating in February of his first year in office, with just 25% disapproving.
Several specific actions Trump has taken in his first two weeks are also meeting with majority opposition, according to the poll. Most oppose the travel restrictions put in place by executive order last week, and 55% say they see it as an attempt to ban Muslims from entering the US. Further, 6 in 10 oppose Trump's plan to build a wall along the border with Mexico.
Overall, 47% say they favor the executive order on travel, which prohibits entry to the US for 90 days by citizens of seven majority-Muslim countries while suspending the US refugee program for 120 days and reducing the total number of refugees the US will accept this year. A majority, 53%, say they oppose the order. Those who favor the ban say by a 2-to-1 margin that they would like to see it expanded to other countries.
Opposition to the travel ban rests somewhat on perceptions that it fulfills one of Trump's campaign proposals: A ban on entry for Muslims. The perception that the executive order is an attempt to ban Muslims from entering is driven largely by opponents of the order -- 82% of whom see it as a Muslim ban, though a quarter of those who support it also see it as an attempt to ban Muslims from entering the country (25% say so).
The public is more closely divided on whether the order makes the US safer or protects American values, two arguments the Trump administration has put forth in support of the order. About 4 in 10 (41%) agree with the Trump administration's contention that the ban makes the US safer from terrorism, while more (46%) say it makes the US less safe from terrorism and another 12% say it doesn't make a difference. Further, just about half (49%) think the order harms American values by keeping out people who are seeking asylum, while 43% say it does more to protect American values by keeping out people who don't support those values.
Across all these questions, opinions are sharply divided by party. Democrats are just as apt to oppose the executive order (88%) as Republicans are to support it (88%); independents tilt against, with 54% opposed. Republicans are 10 times as likely as Democrats to say the order makes the US safer (83% of Republicans vs. 8% of Democrats), and their opinions are again 180 degrees apart when asked about its impact on American values (80% of Republicans say it protects them while 81% of Democrats say it harms them).
There is also a sharp partisan divide on whether America should accept Syrian refugees generally, with 73% of Democrats in favor compared with just 30% of Republicans. Support for accepting refugees has risen across partisan divides since late 2015, however, from 38% support in late 2015 to 54% now, including 13-point increases in support among both Democrats and Republicans.
Considering another executive order from the first days of the Trump presidency, Americans remain largely opposed to building a wall along the entire border with Mexico. In September, 41% favored that; 38% do so now. Opposition to the construction of a border wall now stands at 60%. Trump ordered immediate construction of the wall through an executive order signed less than a week after taking office, but the order does not address funding for the wall. Those in favor of building it support the Trump administration's proposal to fund it through import taxes on goods imported from Mexico by a wide margin.
Assessing Trump's work on a range of issues so far, majorities disapprove of Trump's handling of immigration (56%), foreign affairs (55%) and terrorism (53%). Half (50%) disapprove of his handling of health care policy as he seeks to roll back the provisions of Obamacare, while 42% approve of his work on health care. Americans are split, 49% approve to 46% disapprove, on his handling of national security. The economy remains Trump's bright spot, with 49% approving vs. 43% disapproving.
A broad majority, 78%, say the way Trump has handled the presidency so far is how they expected him to, with just 21% saying the way he's handling the job is unexpected. Still, those who have been surprised by his work don't see it as a pleasant one: 17% say it's been a bad thing vs. 3% who say he's performed unexpectedly well.
The CNN/ORC poll was conducted by telephone January 31 through February 2 among a random national sample of 1,002 adults. Results for the full sample have a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points, it is larger for subgroups.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/europe/france-paris-louvre-incident/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwiagO2Lk_XRAhUC4mMKHSXqDQAQqQIIHCgAMAI&usg=AFQjCNHhqR-BwXWFf8NH6-sCtEHAjg_QMQ
Louvre knife attack: Soldier shoots assailant near Paris museum
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Laura Smith-Spark and Laura Goehler, CNNUpdated 6:04 PM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)French authorities have opened a terror investigation after a soldier shot a man wielding a machete near the Louvre museum in Paris.A new radical Islamic terrorist has just attacked in Louvre Museum in Paris. Tourists were locked down. France on edge again. GET SMART U.S.Something is going down at The #Louvre 30 National Police vehicles with guns drawn pic.twitter.com/kpLTCtVdZNCNN's David Williams, Kara Fox, Simon Cullen, Milena Veselinovic and Lindsay Isaac contributed to this report.The man had rushed toward a group of soldiers and guards in the Carrousel du Louvre, the underground plaza adjoining the museum, according to Paris police Chief Michel Cadot. Wielding the weapon, the man shouted "Allahu akbar," Cadot said. The Arabic phrase translates to "God is greatest."
The soldier fired five shots in response.
The attacker was wearing two backpacks and may have had a second weapon, Cadot said. He was seriously injured by a bullet to the stomach. One soldier was slightly injured on the scalp.
No explosives were found in the backpacks of the man, who was conscious when he was taken into custody, Cadot said.
The attacker has been taken to a hospital for treatment, CNN's French affiliate BFM-TV reported.
Authorities have described him as a 29-year-old Egyptian and resident of the United Arab Emirates, but are withholding his name. He was issued a tourist visa in Dubai on November 8 and arrived in Paris on January 26, authorities said.
Another person was arrested, the French Interior Ministry said, although it was not immediately clear whether he or she was connected to the attack.
Terror investigation
Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve described the attack as "terrorist in nature." The Paris prosecutor announced a terror investigation
About 250 visitors who were in the Louvre at the time were taken to a secure area. They were evacuated in small groups after checks were carried out, as police sought to make sure no one else was involved in the attack.
A security cordon was set up after the incident, which began at 10 a.m. (4 a.m. ET.)
President Francois Hollande praised the response to the attack, tweeting: "I salute the courage and determination showed by the military this morning at the Carrousel du Louvre."
Interior Minister Bruno Le Roux hailed the police and military for their calm and professionalism in subduing the attacker -- and said the incident was a reminder of the current threat.
He tweeted that he was meeting with security officials in Paris before visiting the injured soldier in hospital. 
The mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, said: "In this context of terrorist threat that concerns every big city in the world, we saw how efficient and relevant Paris security features were."
US President Donald Trump tweeted: "A new radical Islamic terrorist has just attacked in Louvre Museum in Paris. Tourists were locked down. France on edge again. GET SMART U.S."
'Frustrating' lockdown
Taylor Walstrum, a junior at the University of Georgia, was visiting the Louvre with some of his classmates while on a study abroad program in Italy -- and was among those caught up in the lockdown.
"We were at the Mona Lisa when alarms started going off, and the staff began frantically ushering us out," he told CNN over Twitter.
He said staff led people down to the basement and said police were sweeping the grounds, but didn't tell them what was happening. Then they moved the group to another room, where they waited for two or three hours.
"[We] weren't told anything other than the inside of the museum was secure, had to rely on outside news, which was very frustrating," he said.
Walstrum said that authorities searched their bags, and then everyone was patted down by armed guards before they were allowed to leave.
"At which point we were let out of the museum and allowed to roam free," he said. "Lots of sirens but we got away from there as quickly as we could."
As the incident unfolded, a music producer from Florida tweeted that "something is going down" at the Louvre, adding that he saw "30 National Police vehicles with guns drawn." 
The Louvre said it would reopen on Saturday. 
State of emergency
Voted the most popular museum in the world in 2016, the Louvre is home to the Mona Lisa, the Venus de Milo and the Code of Hammurabi, among other famous works.
But since a series of terror attacks have plagued France, the number of visitors visiting the country and touring the Parisian institution has fallen.
Louvre attendance has fallen by 21% over the past two years, with 7.3 million people visiting the museum in 2016 compared to 9.3 million in 2014.
A state of emergency has been in place across France since the Paris terror attacks in November 2015, in which 130 people were killed and hundreds injured. In January that year, 17 people were killed in attacks in Paris on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and at a kosher grocery store, and in the Paris suburb of Montrouge.
Last July, a radicalized Tunisian plowed a 20-ton truck into crowds on the Promenade des Anglais in Nice during a Bastille Day celebration, killing 86 people and injuring 200 others.
Authorities continue to monitor thousands of suspected Islamist radicals. 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/politics/over-100000-visas-revoked-government-lawyer-says-in-virginia-court/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwiagO2Lk_XRAhUC4mMKHSXqDQAQqQIIHygAMAM&usg=AFQjCNFWf7KQ49WGYjBkl_zjfRGO_ae1pw
Over 100,000 visas revoked, government lawyer says in Virginia court
By Laura Jarrett, CNNUpdated 6:08 PM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)More than 100,000 visas have been revoked since President Donald Trump's executive order on immigration and travel was signed on January 27, a lawyer for the Justice Department said Friday in a court hearing in Virginia.Yet the State Department quickly disputed that number, telling CNN Friday that "fewer than 60,000 individuals' visas were provisionally revoked to comply with the Executive Order."
The lawyer's number came in response to a question from the US District Court Judge Leonie Brinkema about how many people have been affected by this order.
Erez Reuveni, of the Office of Immigration Litigation within the Civil Division of the Justice Department, also said no returning legal permanent residents have been denied entry at Dulles International Airport, citing recent guidance from the White House counsel's office that sections of Trump's executive order do not apply to legal permanent residents.
Reuveni said he did not know how many people in total were deported over the weekend.
Brinkema ordered the Justice Department to provide a list of "all persons who have been denied entry to or removed from the United States," since the executive order was signed last Friday who "had a residence in the Commonwealth of Virginia and had lawful permanent resident status, an immigrant visa (or accompanying family or spousal visa), a valid student visa (or accompanying family or spousal visa), or a valid work visa (or accompanying family or spousal visa) by the close of business on Thursday, February 9, 2017."
While Brinkema commended the government for working on an agreement to bring two of the named plaintiffs in the case -- Tareq Aqel Mohammed Aziz and Ammar Aqel Muhammad Aziz, who were traveling on immigrant visas but deported when they arrived at Dulles Saturday morning -- back to the US, she also strongly encouraged the government to consider how it might resolve these cases more "globally."
"I have been on this bench a long time ... I have never seen such a public outpouring before," Brinkema said, adding that this order "touched something in people like I've never seen before."
She went on to explain that she recognized that the President has "almost unfettered" discretion in the area of immigration, but his power has "limits" and the rollout of the executive order caused "chaos" last weekend.
"Without any kind of fact-finding or hard evidence of a need to rescind these (visa) decisions, human beings relied on these decisions. ... I hope the government gives serious thought about how to address these issues."
It's not clear why there was a discrepancy between the Justice and State Department's figures. In a statement, Kevin Brosnahan, a State Department spokesman, provided the 60,000 figure and would only say, "We recognize that those individuals are temporarily inconvenienced while we conduct our review under the Executive Order. To put that number in context, we issued over 11 million immigrant and non-immigrant visas in fiscal year 2015."
The Virginia Attorney General's office filed a contempt motion Wednesday following news reports and declarations, including one from Rep. Donald S. Beyer Jr., asserting that attorneys were denied access to detained individuals at Dulles airport in direct violation of Brinkema's court order issued Saturday. 
But Brinkema declined to take up that motion Friday, saying she was "troubled" about any denial of access to counsel but recognized that the situation at Dulles last weekend was "chaotic for everybody." Counsel is not normally allowed in the secondary screening area, and she did not want to "stir up the waters unnecessarily."
The judge also extended her previous temporary restraining order against removing lawful permanent residents until next Friday.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/politics/treasury-department-announcing-sanctions-against-iran-friday-morning/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwiagO2Lk_XRAhUC4mMKHSXqDQAQqQIIIigAMAQ&usg=AFQjCNGLjXGv3mBYqaLhvZEp8Pw0S1MhIQ
Treasury slaps sanctions on Iran after ballistic missile launch
By Kevin Liptak, Jim Acosta and Elise Labott, CNNUpdated 5:09 PM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump's administration enacted new sanctions on Iran Friday, the first concrete action after the White House put Tehran "on notice" this week.The Treasury Department said it was applying sanctions on 25 individuals and companies connected to Iran's ballistic missile program and those providing support to Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps' Qods Force. That included three separate networks linked to supporting the missile program, which the US opposes.
The moves come as punishment for the country's test launch of a ballistic missile last weekend. National Security Adviser Michael Flynn said the move was "provocative" and in defiance of a United Nations Security Council resolution that bars Iran from taking steps on a ballistic missile program capable of launching nuclear weapons.
"They're not behaving," Trump said of Iran in the Oval Office on Friday as he signed unrelated executive orders. 
National Security Adviser Michael Flynn issued a statement on the new sanctions, saying that the "international community has been too tolerant of Iran's bad behavior."
"The days of turning a blind eye to Iran's hostile and belligerent actions toward the United States and the world community are over," Flynn said.
The new sanctions are designed not to impede upon the Iran nuclear deal, which the US and five other world powers signed with Tehran during President Barack Obama's tenure. That plan allowed for the lifting of major sanctions against Iran in exchange for a curtailment of its nuclear program.
Administration officials said Friday the new round of sanctions does not affect any individual or firm that had sanctions lifted as part of the nuclear accord. The officials said that new deals between US companies and Iran, like an agreement with Boeing for a new fleet of jets, were not likely to be affected by the sanctions.
Iran dismisses Trump's 'ranting' and vows more missile tests
Tehran, however, responded by saying the moves were in violation of the nuclear agreement, calling them "illegal" and "extraterritorial."
The sanctions are "contrary to the obligations of the United States," according to the country's official news agency IRNA, which cited the foreign ministry.
Iran's missile program is purely for "defensive purposes," the foreign ministry said.
Trump's Press Secretary Sean Spicer said Friday the White House would continue responding to any Iranian provocations going forward. But he said the moves illustrate the pitfalls of the nuclear agreement.
"Today's sanctions really represent a very, very strong stance against the actions that Iran has been taking, and make it very clear that the deal that they struck previously was not in the best interest of this country, and that President Trump is going to do everything he can to make sure that Iran is stayed in check," Spicer said.
The detailed announcement from the Treasury Department on Friday reflected months of work, US officials said, dating to before Trump took office.
"Treasury has likely been working on these Iran sanctions for months," said a congressional aide. US officials said the deliberative process was "totally normal," despite the new administration still filling key national security roles. 
Friday's announcement represents the first concrete step in what the Trump administration has vowed will be a more aggressive approach to Iran.
Trump on Thursday refused to rule out military action against Iran, saying that "nothing is off the table" when it comes to confronting destabilizing behavior from the country. While Obama also refused to rule out military action, Trump's rhetoric reflects a scaled-up posture.
On the campaign trail, Trump railed against the nuclear deal, though his aides have offered a more muted view after he took office. An official who briefed reporters this week suggested the agreement, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, would remain in place for now.
In a letter to Trump Thursday, a bipartisan group of senators had encouraged aggressive action against Iran as a rebuttal to its missile launches and support for terror organizations.
US rips 'irresponsible' Iran after missile test
"Iranian leaders must feel sufficient pressure to cease deeply destabilizing activities, from sponsoring terrorist groups to continued testing of ballistic missiles," the lawmakers wrote.
"Full enforcement of existing sanctions and the imposition of additional sanctions on Iran for its ballistic missile program are necessary," the letter said. 
On Friday, the move drew swift praise from Republicans on Capitol Hill.
"Iran's dangerous and provocative acts are a direct threat to the United States and our allies," said House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce in a statement. "I'm glad the administration is taking long-overdue steps to hold the regime accountable." 
The new sanctions designate Abdollah Asgharzadeh, an Iranian businessman whom the Treasury Department accused of acting as a procurement agent for the ballistic missile program. It also singled out individuals within Asgharzadeh's network.
Iran to take 'reciprocal measures' after Trump's immigration order
Other entities that were targeted Friday include trading networks associated with Iran's missile program and a network accused of providing cash transfers to Hezbollah, the Lebanon-based terror group.
The Treasury Department said it was freezing all US assets for those individuals and prohibiting Americans from doing business with them. A US official said the individuals who came under sanction on Friday have "touch points" in the US financial system, but couldn't detail their exact exposure in the United States or the precise impact the sanctions will have monetarily.
The sanctions on Iranian individuals and companies were issued under an existing executive order that Trump's two predecessors, George W. Bush and Barack Obama, also used to punish the country for test launches, most recently in January 2016.
A US official said Friday that Washington would continue its response to actions it deems provocative from Iran.
"Iran has to determine its response to our actions," the official said, adding "Iran has a choice to make. We are going to continue to respond to their behavior in an ongoing way, at an appropriate level, to continue to pressure them to change their behavior."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/politics/conway-bowling-green/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwiagO2Lk_XRAhUC4mMKHSXqDQAQqQIIJSgAMAU&usg=AFQjCNHRrq8j9gTm-Z-n36RfZT0wJJDHyA
Trump adviser cites non-existent 'massacre' defending ban
CNN StaffUpdated 10:29 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)Senior Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway made a statement during a TV interview Thursday that pricked the ears of fact-checkers everywhere.On @hardball @NBCNews @MSNBC I meant to say  "Bowling Green terrorists" as reported here: https://t.co/nB5SwIEoYIVery grateful no one seriously hurt in the Louvre attack ...or the (completely fake) Bowling Green Massacre. Please don't make up attacks.CNN's Elizabeth Landers and Tina Burnside contributed to this reportShe told MSNBC's Chris Matthews:
"I bet it's brand new information to people that President Obama had a six-month ban on the Iraqi refugee program after two Iraqis came here to this country, were radicalized and they were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green massacre. It didn't get covered."
First of all, Obama didn't ban the Iraqi refugee program.
Second, there's no such thing as the Bowling Green massacre. 
Conway later clarified that she was referencing the case of two Iraqis -- Waad Ramadan Alwan and Mohanad Shareef Hammadi -- who lived in Bowling Green, Kentucky. Both were granted refugee status and entered the United States in 2009. 
"On @hardball@NBCNews@MSNBC I meant to say 'Bowling Green terrorists' as reported here," she said, before linking to an ABC news story on the case. 
They were arrested in May 2011 on a series of terrorism charges and were sentenced two years later after pleading guilty. 
The two men were never planning on committing an act of terrorism on US soil. Instead, they were trying to help get weapons to al Qaeda in Iraq. They were terrorists who should not have been allowed in the country, but they weren't planning an attack in the United States. And they didn't kill anyone in Bowling Green (or anywhere else in the US). 
CNN has reached out to the White House seeking comment of Conway's statement and have not yet received a response.
Chelsea Clinton, the daughter of Trump's general election Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton, referenced Conway's comments in a tweet Friday morning, saying "don't make up fake attacks."
"Very grateful no one seriously hurt in the Louvre attack ...or the (completely fake) Bowling Green Massacre. Please don't make up attacks."
Some background on that case: 
After arriving in the United States, the men were monitored by federal authorities. They told an FBI confidential informant that they wanted to provide weapons and explosives to al Qaeda in Iraq, court documents said.
An extensive undercover sting operation was launched, authorities said, and Alwan -- who a Justice Department official once called "a really bad guy" -- told an undercover agent he had been involved with "hundreds" of IEDs.
An indictment released at the time said the United States was able to locate Alwan's fingerprints on an IED and on the base of a cordless phone used in an attack near Bayji, Iraq in the early 2000s. That the vetting process didn't work and that these men were allowed into the country highlighted serious flaws in the refugee resettlement system and led to reforms of the vetting process.  
As a result, Obama ordered that 57,000-58,000 Iraqi refugees recently allowed into the country be revetted, causing a massive backlog. So, while there was no specific 'ban' on Iraqi refugees coming into the country, there was a delay in allowing anymore in. 
So to recap: There was no massacre in Bowling Green, and Obama didn't ban Iraqi refugees from the country for six months. Major outlets, including CNN, did cover Alwan and Hammadi's case. We did not, however, cover the Bowling Green massacre because it never happened.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/politics/border-wall-republicans/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwiagO2Lk_XRAhUC4mMKHSXqDQAQpwIIKzAG&usg=AFQjCNH7lZUdVYyXuICS74FdsGRiVk9hsQ
Hill Republicans revolt over Trump's plans to build border wall
By Manu Raju, Senior Political ReporterUpdated 2:44 PM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump's plan to build a wall on the border with Mexico is facing a major problem: A wall of resistance from his own party. CNN's Tom LoBianco contributed to this report.A growing number of congressional Republicans are objecting to the cost and viability of a proposal that was a rallying cry for the billionaire businessman during his insurgent campaign. Interviews with more than a dozen GOP lawmakers across the ideological spectrum suggest Trump could have a difficult time getting funding for his plan approved by Congress. 
Many bluntly told CNN they'd likely vote against any Trump plan that is not fully offset with spending cuts, while others questioned whether Trump's vision would adequately resolve the problems at the border. 
"If you're going to spend that kind of money, you're going to have to show me where you're going to get that money," said Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski, a key swing vote who has already broken with Trump over his nominee for secretary of education.
"I don't see how you can get a bill like that through (Congress) without offsets," she added. "I don't see how that's possible."
Trump's wall already faces legal hurdles given the likelihood that it could spawn lawsuits at the border. But if Congress doesn't go along with his funding plan, it could effectively stall Trump's proposal right out of the gate. House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said last week that the cost could range from $12 billion-$15 billion, while Ryan suggested that the project may not be fully offset with spending cuts, saying the wall is "a national security priority." 
Sen. John Cornyn, the No. 2 Senate Republican who represents the border state of Texas, was deeply skeptical about whether a wall alone would be enough to deter immigrants from entering the country illegally. And he issued a stark warning to Trump.
"I have concerns about spending un-offset money, which adds to the debt, period," Cornyn said bluntly when asked about the wall. "I don't think we're just going to be able to solve border security with a physical barrier because people can come under, around it and through it."
Trump has increasingly said that Congress would fund the wall initially but would later be reimbursed completely by Mexico. But prominent Republicans say flatly that they don't think Mexico will pay the United States back -- and Mexican leadership has repeatedly said the same -- meaning that taxpayers would be left holding the bag.
"No," Arizona Republican Sen. John McCain said when asked if he thought Mexico would reimburse the United States for the wall. "It's not a viable option." 
McCain added: "If you only build a wall, only a 'wall,' without using technology, individuals, drones, observations, etc., you're not going to secure the border."
Trump still has time to convince his party to go along, especially if he provides more details on his plans, given Republicans are largely united behind calls for more robust border security. And some GOP senators, like Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, suggest they're open to paying for the wall even if it's not offset by spending cuts. 
White House lobbying
Behind the scenes, the Trump administration has tried to shore up support. John Kelly, the new secretary of Homeland Security, began to discuss with lawmakers this week his border security plans, sources said, but senators reported there were few details on the specifications of the wall. 
The Trump administration is working on a supplemental funding package to pay for border and national security, but that work has stalled as the Senate moves slowly to confirm Trump's pick of Rep. Mick Mulvaney as his budget director. 
Still, Trump wants to move quickly on the wall, within the first quarter of this year. And even if he asks for spending cuts to pay the wall, sources on the House and Senate appropriations committees say finding upwards of $15 billion in reductions would be extraordinarily difficult, especially in the middle of the fiscal year. 
After last week's party retreat in Philadelphia, many Republicans also voiced concerns that there isn't enough focus on reducing the debt and deficit -- especially as Trump pushes Congress to green-light new infrastructure projects aside from the wall.
"I don't want to see any spending, additional spending on anything done that is not paid for," said Sen. Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, when asked about the wall. "We have got a huge fiscal problem right now -- $20.355 trillion in debt projected to add $9.7 trillion over the next 10 years. And I'm concerned that when I left the retreat last week there are so many things that people are talking about spending money on and at the same time lowering the amount of revenue. And it's a recipe for disaster."  
Corker added he was concerned about a number of proposals that will add to the debt -- not just the wall. 
A White House spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment, but the administration has been vague on its plans. White House spokesman Sean Spicer suggested last week that the administration was considering imposing a 20% tax on Mexican imports to pay for the wall, but hours later said it was one of a list of ideas after Republican senators pushed back on that proposal.
In one of his first moves as president, Trump took executive action to order the construction of the wall, with Spicer saying "his goal was to get the project started as quickly as possible" with existing funds and then "move forward and work with Congress on an appropriation schedule." Spicer added that the American taxpayer will be "wholly respected."
But lawmakers will need more convincing to agree to pay up.
Sen. James Lankford of Oklahoma is skeptical that Trump will get Mexico to pay for the wall, meaning he thinks Congress needs to find spending cuts to pay for the plan.
"I don't count on Mexico to pay for our national security," Lankford said. "It's the responsibility of every nation to take care of their own security."
Sen. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, a close McConnell ally who sits on the Senate Appropriations Committee, said: "Everything we spend we need to find a way to pay for."
In the House, Trump could also face a wall of resistance from deficit hawks like Rep. Justin Amash of Michigan. 
"It looks like they're going to blow up our budget," Amash warned. 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/politics/yemen-raid-videos/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwiagO2Lk_XRAhUC4mMKHSXqDQAQpwIILjAH&usg=AFQjCNHaTQ0DzBlFz_HIVKqEqWMU3T6PDw
Military botches release of video seized in Yemen raid
By Nicole Gaouette and Ryan Browne, CNNUpdated 7:07 PM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)The US military is scrambling to explain an embarrassing mix-up after it released video obtained from Sunday's raid in Yemen that turned out to have already been published online.CNN's Dan Merica contributed to this report.A military spokesman acknowledged it was released without having been thoroughly analyzed.
The video was meant to demonstrate the value of the weekend raid whose stated aim was to recover key intelligence about al Qaeda. But the footage released Friday morning actually consisted of video that was previously available to the public.
The video was pulled because "we didn't want to make it appear that we were trying to pass off old video," said US Central Command spokesman Col. John Thomas. The mistake was due "to our lack of having time to properly analyze it."
"We were trying to provide an example of some of the things recovered on the raid," Thomas said.
Thomas was adamant there was no pressure to release anything. He insisted it was CENTCOM'S decision alone to put out the video and not an order from above.
A second defense official agreed that there was no White House pressure. The official said that the desire to get this out came from a subordinate Special Operations unit involved in the raid frustrated by the politicization and coverage of the mission. The Pentagon quickly approved the idea when broached by CENTCOM, the official added.
A White House official told CNN it was not involved in the Pentagon's decision to release video of the January raid in Yemen.
The video that was released is nine years old, according to US CENTCOM officials.
But the military said the footage, even if not fresh, was still of value.
"It does not matter when the video was made. It is still illustrative of who they are and what their intentions are," said Capt. Jeff Davis, Pentagon spokesman.
Ahead of the botched video release, Thomas had said that "the videos are one example of the volumes of sensitive al Qaeda terror-planning information recovered during the operation." 
He added, "What was captured from the site has already afforded insights into al Qaeda leadership, AQAP (Al Qaeda of the Arabian Peninsula) methods of exporting terror, and how they communicate."  
CENTCOM said the remainder of the recovered information will remain classified.
President Donald Trump will visit US Central Command at MacDill Air Force Base in Florida on Monday, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer announced Friday. He said the President will receive briefings from military officials there and deliver an "all hands" address to US troops.
Post-raid analysis has determined that several of the 14 AQAP operatives killed in the raid were terrorist network leaders and facilitators, according to CENTCOM. The dead include Sultan al Dhahab and Abd-al-Ra'uf al-Dhahab, two longstanding AQAP operational planners and weapons experts.
An official at Central Command, which oversees US military operations in the Middle East, described the clips as excerpts from "al Qaeda terrorist training videos," saying the release offers "a first look" at what the military recovered.
The information was seized from a staging area, propaganda center and logistics hub for AQAP's terrorist network this past weekend. The military said the operation, known as a "site exploitation" raid, was geared toward collecting as much intelligence on the terror group as possible to facilitate future raids and strikes against al Qaeda and prevent terror attacks around the world.
In the wake of the Obama administration's raid that killed al Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden, the military released videos that were among the trove of documents and computers seized in that operation.
The release of the new video clips comes as news has emerged regarding how the raid was authorized during the first days of Trump's presidency.
Former National Security Council staff under President Barack Obama criticized what they said were the Trump White House's attempts to attribute the operation's approval to the previous administration. The raid left one Navy SEAL dead, three wounded and led to civilian casualties.  
Trump provided final approval for the raid because it required a presidential green light, but it was months in the making and was okayed at several levels before getting to the President's desk. Trump staffers, military officials and Obama-era Pentagon officials have said that the raid was also approved by commanders and Obama's defense secretary.
Operational details, including the need for a moonless night, pushed the mission window back after January 20.
As US Navy SEALs and special forces from the UAE approached the al Qaeda compound in Yemen, they were detected. An intense firefight broke out that killed Chief Petty Officer William "Ryan" Owens and wounded three additional SEALs. 
During the gun battle, which featured small arms fire, hand grenades and close air support strikes from US aircraft, al Qaeda fighters -- including some female combatants -- took up firing positions on the roof of a nearby building. As the US troops came under fire, they called in an airstrike against the building, which likely led to civilian casualties, military officials said.
The group is thought to be the most capable of al Qaeda's franchises. Besides the "shoebomber," the group was also behind the 2013 Boston Marathon attack, a 2010 plot to put bombs on cargo planes bound for two Jewish targets in the US and the deadly 2015 attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices in Paris.
This story has been updated throughout to explain the mix-up over the video released by CENTCOM. Updates will continue as more information is available.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/03/europe/eu-leaders-summit-malta/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwiagO2Lk_XRAhUC4mMKHSXqDQAQpwIIMTAI&usg=AFQjCNFCWCOa6mN_sX7XQCxWGpFejjo2YQ
EU leaders attack Donald Trump at Malta summit
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Laura Smith-Spark, Vasco Cotovio and Euan McKirdy, CNNUpdated 7:40 AM ET, Fri February 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Valletta, Malta (CNN)EU leaders, led by French president Francois Hollande, have denounced recent attacks on Europe by Donald Trump as they met for a summit to debate the future of the union.CNN's Nic Robertson reported from Valletta, and Laura Smith-Spark wrote and reported from London and Euan McKirdy from Hong Kong.Hollande described Trump's statements as "unacceptable", and German Chancellor Angela Merkel called on the EU to press ahead with its own plans whatever the US says.
EU leaders have been rattled by Trump's comments on Europe and the NATO transatlantic alliance. He has voiced his support for Britain's departure from the EU, criticized European refugee policies and called NATO "obsolete".  
Hollande hit out at Trump as he arrived at the informal summit on the future of the EU in Malta. "There are threats, there are challenges. What is at stake is the very future of the European Union," he said.
"It is unacceptable that there should be, through a number of statements by the US President, pressure on what Europe should be or what it should no longer be."
Merkel called on fellow EU leaders to unite, as she arrived for the summit in Valletta, Malta's capital. "I already said that Europe has its destiny in its own hands. And I believe the stronger we state clearly how we define our role in the world, the better we can take care with our transatlantic relations," she said.
NIC ROBERTSON: Europe must come to terms with Trump's hostility
Austrian Chancellor Christian Kern criticized Trump's ban on travel from seven Muslim-majority countries as "highly problematic." He blamed some of the migration problems on US intervention in the Middle East. "There is no doubt that America shares responsibility for the refugee flows by the way how it intervened militarily," he said, according to AFP.
Concerns about Trump's 'decisions and attitudes'
The concerns about Trump continued into the discussions. Malta's Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said EU leaders  expressed concern about some "decisions and attitudes" of the Trump administration during their deliberations at the summit. 
"Obviously there was concern among the EU 28 on some decisions that are being taken by the new US administration and some attitudes that are being adopted by the said administration. Nevertheless there was no sense of anti-Americanism. There was a sense that we need to engage with the United States just the same, but we need to show that we cannot stay silent where there are principles involved."
The President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, said protecting Europe's "unique" relationship with the United States was still the "highest political priority" for not just the EU, but for all of Europe. Speaking at a press conference at the Malta summit, Tusk said that transatlantic cooperation "has until now been a key pillar of the free world."
His remarks were markedly more conciliatory than earlier int he week,  when he called the Trump administration an "external threat to Europe."
Potential EU envoy 'hostile' 
The criticism of Trump came after it was revealed that the European Parliament's main political party is attempting to block Trump's expected choice for US ambassador to the European Union.
A letter from the Group of the European People's Party, or EPP, urges the EU to reject US businessman Ted Malloch, calling him "hostile and malevolent" and accusing him of "denigrating the EU."
"In these statements, the prospective nominee expressed his ambitions 'to tame the bloc like he brought down the Soviet Union,' eloquently supported dissolution of the European Union and explicitly bet on the demise of the common currency within months," they say in the letter to the presidents of the European Council and European Commission.
"We are strongly convinced that persons seeing as their mission to disrupt or dissolve the EU, should not be accredited as official representatives to the EU."
Opinion: Europe must come to terms with Trump's hostility
The letter ends by urging EU leaders Donald Tusk and Jean-Claude Juncker not to accept Malloch should he be Trump's pick. Envoys to the EU must be approved by the European Council, the European Commission and signed off by EU leaders.
Brexit debate
Following her trip last week to Washington, UK Prime Minister Theresa May was expected to brief EU leaders on her meeting with Trump in which she received assurances that he is fully committed to NATO. She will call on other members of the EU to increase their defense spending.
Britain's future relationship with the EU is also on the agenda in Malta.
Britain edged closer to Brexit this week, with Parliament voting in favor of May triggering Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty -- the formal process of leaving the EU.
May wants to invoke Article 50 by the end of March, firing the starting gun on a two-year divorce wrangle.
The UK government has stressed it wants to see a strong and successful European Union after Brexit.
In Malta, May is already an outsider, invited to some meetings but not all. She won't join the other EU leaders when they discuss recent comments by Tusk, the European Council president, calling Trump a "threat" to the European order.
