http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/01/asia/china-hong-kong-billionaire-xiao-jianhua/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjXsKqHlPXRAhVT02MKHcHkBhQ4RhCnAggVMAA&usg=AFQjCNEGs6Xz2QuKDnX_knliLmMy4e75vQ
Chinese billionaire Xiao Jianhua seized from luxury Hong Kong hotel, source says
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Steven Jiang and Katie Hunt, CNNUpdated 7:49 PM ET, Wed February 1, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)A Chinese billionaire with Canadian citizenship has been seized from his apartment at the Four Seasons hotel in Hong Kong and taken to mainland China, a source familiar with the situation told CNN Wednesday.CNN's Esther Pang, Felicia Wong, Yuli Yang, Vivian Kam and Zahra Ullah contributed to this reportHong Kong police said they were investigating the disappearance of Xiao Jianhua, who was reported missing Friday. Police added that they had received a request Saturday from a family member to drop the case.
"We are still investigating and have reached out to the mainland authorities concerned," the statement sent to CNN Tuesday said. 
Xiao is one of China's richest men and controls the Tomorrow Group, a massive holding company with stakes in banks, insurers and property developers. According to Hurun, which analyzes Chinese wealth, Xiao is 46 and has a net worth of $6 billion.
Similar pattern?
Xiao's disappearance adds to fears that freedoms guaranteed under the "one country, two systems" policy agreed to as part of Britain's 1997 handover of Hong Kong are being eroded as Beijing asserts more control over the city.  
His case has drawn comparisons with Lee Bo, a bookseller and British passport holder that disappeared from Hong Kong in late 2015 and later turned up in Chinese custody. 
Lee's removal, which came after the disappearance of four of his colleagues, sparked outrage in Hong Kong and internationally over fears he was taken against his will by Chinese law enforcement agents, who aren't permitted to act in the self-governing city. 
One of the booksellers, Swedish citizen Gui Minhai, remains in detention 15 months after he was taken from Thailand. 
Meet 5 of China's disappearing executives
Front-page denial
The person familiar with the situation told CNN that there was a small scuffle between two dozen security officials and Xiao's own security detail, which usually numbers about eight bodyguards per shift. 
The source, who wanted to remain anonymous because of the politically sensitive nature of the case, said Xiao had close connections to some of China's most powerful families.
In a front-page ad published in Hong Kong's Mingpao newpaper Wednesday, Xiao appeared to deny he had been kidnapped. 
The statement in Chinese, which had Xiao's name printed at the bottom, said that he was "recuperating overseas" and hoped to meet with media once he had recovered. 
"I'm a patriotic overseas Chinese and I've always loved the party and the country," it said. The statement added that he was a Canadian citizen entitled to consular assistance and a permanent Hong Kong resident. 
Mingpao said they couldn't disclose who bought the unusual ad, which according to the newspaper's advertising rate card would have cost $36,500. 
Other high-profile businesspeople detained in China have been pressed to release messages insisting that everything is fine. 
The newspaper statement was similar to a post on the Tomorrow Group's WeChat account -- a social network and messaging app that's massively popular in China. The post has since been deleted. 
The Four Seasons, which occupies a 45-story skyscraper that commands spectacular views of Hong Kong's harbor, said it was cooperating with the police investigation but declined to comment further.
The Canadian Consulate said it was aware of the reports and officials were "in contact with the authorities to gather additional information and provide assistance."
"In order to protect the privacy of the individual concerned, further details on this case cannot be released." 
China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Public Security Ministry didn't respond to a request for comment.  
Who is he?
Born in China, Xiao also held a diplomatic passport from Antigua and Barbuda, where he was an ambassador at large, according to a statement on the Antigua government website. The country's foreign ministry didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.  
According to the Financial Times, Xiao was a financier with links to the family of Chinese President Xi Jinping.
He was one of a number of Chinese tycoons who had moved to Hong Kong and taken up residence in private apartments at the 5-star Four Seasons hotel during Xi's crackdown on corporate excess, the paper said. 
A 2014 profile in the New York Times said Xiao was often surrounded by aides and retained a number of female body guards "who even wipe the sweat from his brow."
Born in a poor mountain village, Xiao passed the highly competitive college entrance exam at 14 and attended Peking University, China's most prestigious, it added. 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/01/entertainment/beyonce-pregnant-twins/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjXsKqHlPXRAhVT02MKHcHkBhQ4RhCnAggYMAE&usg=AFQjCNGdf9PsMOVjtErLl8pf-8MvyysIyg
Beyoncé is pregnant with twins
By Lisa Respers France, CNNUpdated 2:57 PM ET, Wed February 1, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)Ring the alarm: Queen Bey is having twins. We would like to share our love and happiness. We have been blessed two times over. We are incredibly grateful  that our family will be growing by two, and we thank you for your well wishes. - The CartersA photo posted by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Feb 1, 2017 at 10:39am PSTBEYONCÉ PREGNANT WITH TWINS I CANT DEAL pic.twitter.com/Es8NxFQGDzi'm more excited for beyoncé to be pregnant than any event ill ever have in my lifeWhen I found out Beyoncé was pregnant with twins pic.twitter.com/vAZXkfbbG0Queen came through to give us new life in these dismal ass times. #Beyonce pic.twitter.com/FnKfH8HaClCongrats the Carters! Beyonce shows off her baby bump at the #VMAs pic.twitter.com/sM8fyM2© 2017 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2017 Cable News Network. The superstar singer posted a photo with her baby bump on Instagram Wednesday to announce the joyful news.
"We would like to share our love and happiness. We have been blessed two times over. We are incredibly grateful that our family will be growing by two, and we thank you for your well wishes. The Carters, " she posted.
Beyoncé and her superstar husband Jay Z are parents to five-year-old daughter, Blue Ivy.
The couple married in 2008. 
The family's news set social media on fire with the Beyhive (as her diehard fans are known) buzzing about the new heir and spare. Twitter reported more than half a million tweets about Beyoncé in the first hour after her big reveal.
Beyoncé has frequently been the subject of pregnancy rumors.
In 2011, she announced the impending birth of their first child by revealing her baby bump at the end of a performance at the MTV Video Music Awards. 
Fans had been tipped off earlier in the evening when she was seen cradling her baby bump on the VMAs red carpet.
Beyoncé is nominated for nine 2017 Grammy Awards and is expected to attend the ceremony on February 12. She is also scheduled to headline the Coachella music festival in April. 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/01/opinions/bannon-trump-coup-opinion-ben-ghiat/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjXsKqHlPXRAhVT02MKHcHkBhQ4RhCnAggbMAI&usg=AFQjCNGkzE5HmOTwygAnxgtlhHoeIdwSSw
Donald Trump and Steve Bannon's coup in the making  
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Ruth Ben-GhiatUpdated 11:47 AM ET, Wed February 1, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Ruth Ben-Ghiat is a frequent contributor to CNN Opinion and a professor of history and Italian studies at New York University. Her latest book is "Italian Fascism's Empire Cinema." The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN)We're not even two weeks into the Trump presidency. Has your head exploded yet? If so, you're right where Donald Trump and our shadow ruler, Steve Bannon, want you to be.Get used to it. @POTUS is a man of action and impact. Promises made, promises kept. Shock to the system. And he's just getting started https://t.co/AoUsZWClXtJoin us on Twitter and FacebookThe onslaught of executive orders and threatening talk, while entirely in keeping with what Trump promised during the campaign, have left Americans of many political leanings feeling overwhelmed and fearful of what may come next.
The confusion and chaos generated at the bureaucratic and individual level by Trump's most spectacular executive order -- his ban of individuals from selected predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States -- came in part from its sudden announcement. From enforcers to the public, many were thrown off guard.
Welcome to the shock event, designed precisely to jar the political system and civil society, causing a disorientation and disruption among the public and the political class that aids the leader in consolidating his power.
Those who still refuse to take Trump seriously cite his incompetence for the rough start in office. Yet this blitzkrieg was intentional. "Get used to it. @POTUS is a man of action and impact ... Shock to the system. And he's just getting started" his counselor Kellyanne Conway tweeted Saturday.  
As Conway implies, these first days of the Trump administration could be considered a prologue to a bigger drama, and one that reflects the thinking of Trump and Bannon alike. From their actions and pronouncements, we cannot exclude an intention to carry out a type of coup.
Many may raise their eyebrows at my use of this word, which brings to mind military juntas in faraway countries who use violence and the element of surprise to gain power. Our situation is different. Trump gained power legally but this week has provided many indications that his inner circle intends to shock or strike at the system, using the resulting spaces of chaos and flux to create a kind of government within the government: one beholden only to the chief executive.
"Strike at the enemy at a time and place or in a manner for which he is unprepared," reads one US Air Force formulation of the old military doctrine of surprise. Trump has long been an advocate of this tactic and complained various times during the campaign that our armed forces were far too transparent about their planned operations.
Yet Bannon is the mastermind of this takeover strategy as it's been adapted to the domestic realm. Well-versed in military tactics and the history of the radical left and right, Bannon has repeatedly talked about "destroying the state" in the name of securing power for "an insurgent, center-right populist movement that is virulently anti-establishment."
Besieging your targets until nothing makes any sense -- giving them no time to absorb or recover from attacks -- is a time-tested strategy in the history of war and authoritarian takeovers. One might cite what's gone on in Turkey under President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
It's now being employed at the pinnacle of American democracy. It's particularly useful in situations where the leader is vulnerable due to possible investigations, blackmails or other circumstances that close off gradualist approaches to implementing an agenda. With all the emergencies going on, who is bothered at the moment about those Trump tax returns, or even his ties to Russia?  
This strategy requires a two-pronged approach. First, the creation of a small group of loyal insiders, who take orders directly from the leader's inner circle and are tasked with creating chains of authority that bypass those of the existing federal government and party bureaucracies. I was disturbed, but not surprised, when Conway said two days after the inauguration that "it's really time for (Trump) to put in his own security and intelligence community."
Second is the unleashing of the political purges that authoritarians so love. Some purges are punitive (say the firing of acting Attorney General Sally Yates because she defied Trump's immigration order) and some pre-emptive (the expulsion of senior State Department staff) but the effect is to cleanse the government of troublemakers and leave a power vacuum to be filled with loyalists -- or not filled at all, for added disruption of the state bureaucracy.
Trump campaigned on a platform of unifying the nation, but by striking at the state he and Bannon intend to turn us against each other.
Their blitzkrieg not only throws us off balance but forces us to take sides. Do I work for Trump or leave the government? Do I issue a statement that my company disapproves of the travel ban? What will my shareholders and stakeholders think? It's no accident that the World War II language of resistance and collaboration has come back into circulation -- these are the situations authoritarians create to divide us, making it easier for them to restrict our freedoms.
Trump and Bannon are in this for the long run. Trump has already filed paperwork for a 2020 candidacy. Our focus, in the middle of this storm, is to keep our feet on the ground and our eyes on the prize: the defense of American democracy.    
http://edition.cnn.com/2017/02/01/football/maracana-stadium-rio-2016-olympics/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjXsKqHlPXRAhVT02MKHcHkBhQ4RhCnAggeMAM&usg=AFQjCNFKcWx_m2VcK0sdiGeQvf1G-o9xUw
Why the legendary Maracana now looks like a ghost stadium 
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Flora Charner and Shasta Darlington, CNNUpdated 1558 GMT (2358 HKT) February 2, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Rio de Janeiro  (CNN)It is one of the most famous stadiums in the world and was a showpiece venue for the Rio Olympics, but six months on from the Summer Games the iconic Maracana looks more ghostly than glitzy. "This is a temple in Brazil" @JamilChade​ reflects on the decline of the Maracana stadium with @AmandaDCNNMore: https://t.co/24msv88WK9 pic.twitter.com/Sp5t1TGrc8Dead grass, 7000 seats torn out - iconic #Maracana stadium in a sorry state after costly reforms for #Brazil #WorldCup and #Olympics pic.twitter.com/ojmK6QCvhbThe usual bustle of rowdy football fans is nowhere to be seen. Daily tours to the world-renowned landmark have been suspended and trouble in the area has been on the rise.
Violent robberies and vandalism have been reported nearby and, despite the stadium's padlocked gates, a recent break-in led to the loss of expensive equipment and precious memorabilia, including a bust of late journalist Mario Filho, whom the stadium is named after. 
A series of legal battles and abandonment have left the once glorious Maracana in a state of total decay and as Rio de Janeiro kicks off one of the state's main seasonal cups, it is unclear whether the stadium will be able to host matches for this, or any, upcoming tournament.
Invasion of worms
During a recent visit, CNN was able to see the extent of some of the damage. The browning pitch has been invaded by worms, several windows and doors have been broken or damaged and nearly 10% of the stadium's 78,000 seats are missing.
"There are things that you can see on the surface that are damaged, like the grass and the seats," Daelcio de Freitas, spokesperson for Maracana SA, the firm responsible for the stadium's upkeep, told CNN. 
"However, what we are most concerned about is the safety of the people who are coming to Maracana and we need to make sure things, like the stadium's roof, weren't compromised."
The stadium also had its power cut off last week due to unpaid bills. So just months after hosting the opening and closing ceremonies at last summer's Olympics and Paralympics, wowing viewers and spectators with elaborate pyrotechnics, this famous stadium was plunged into darkness.  
According to state energy provider Light, the stadium had incurred a debt of nearly three million Brazilian reals ($939, 937). 
READ: Brazil's most painful moment
READ: Neymar and the secrets of Barcelona's success
Legal battles
Disputes over who is in charge of the stadium involve Maracana SA, the Rio 2016 Organizing Committee and the state of Rio.
According to Maracana SA, the state and Rio 2016 violated the original contract signed when the Olympic Committee assumed control last March. It claims the stadium was not returned in the conditions stipulated in the contract.
But Rio 2016 has said it was "not responsible" for the problems which are blighting the stadium. 
Mario Andrada, a spokesperson for Rio 2016, recently told CNN affiliate, TV Record: "(We admit) we need to make some repairs. We know they are our obligation and that we are a bit behind, but these things shouldn't keep the stadium from functioning."
Rio 2016 is negotiating the payment of 1.7 million reals ($539.494) -- more than half of what is owed -- to Light.
Maracana SA will pay the remainder of the debt, charging some vendors who used the stadium after the Olympics, including organizers of Brazil football great Zico's annual charity match, the last match to be played there back in December. 
From riches to rags
In addition to hosting the 2016 Olympics and Paralympics, the Maracana was the venue for the finals of the 2014 FIFA World Cup, the 2013 Confederations Cup and the 2007 Pan-American Games and has held several concerts and regional football tournaments.
Built for the 1950 FIFA World Cup, it hosted the final between Brazil and Uruguay before a crowd of nearly 200,000, making it then the world's largest stadium by capacity.
And it was at the Maracana that Brazil's Pele, regarded by many as the greatest footballer in history, became the first player to score 1000 professional goals. 
The stadium was shut down for two years and practically rebuilt for the 2014 FIFA World Cup at a cost of more than $500m.
But it is now unclear what the landmark stadium's legacy will be. 
Maracana SA, whose majority shareholder is construction company Odebrecht, is looking to hand over stadium maintenance to interested bidders. According to Maracana SA, they are waiting on the state government to approve the move.
Visit cnn.com/football for more news and videos
Rio's Football Federation is hopeful the final of Guanabara Cup will be held in the stadium, but football officials are unsure whether the stadium will be fully repaired by then or who will be managing one of the country's most beloved venues.
Other Olympic venues, like the Deodoro Aquatic Centre and the Olympic golf course, are also shut down and remain unused. Management of those venues are split between the municipal government and private organizations.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/30/americas/quebec-mosque-shooting/index.html&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjXsKqHlPXRAhVT02MKHcHkBhQ4RhCnAgghMAQ&usg=AFQjCNGctKXrTfSK_pYD3gHSHuiN7BgsXw
Quebec mosque shooting: 'Lone wolf' kills 6, officials say
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Paula Newton, Julia Jones and Holly Yan, CNNUpdated 7:17 AM ET, Tue January 31, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Quebec City (CNN)The suspect charged with murder in Sunday's shooting that left six people dead at a Quebec City mosque was a "lone wolf," Canadian Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale said Monday. À la suite de cet acte terroriste, j'ai demandé à l'#assnat de mettre en berne notre drapeau du #Québec.  #tousunisTonight, Canadians grieve for those killed in a cowardly attack on a mosque in Quebec City. My thoughts are with victims & their families.CNN's Paula Newton and Julia Jones reported from Quebec City; Holly Yan reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Euan McKirdy, Merieme Arif, Chuck Johnston, Mayra Cuevas and Samira Said contributed to this report.Alexandre Bissonnette was identified as the person who opened fire at the Quebec Islamic Cultural Center, according to a source with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and a Quebec City court clerk.
Bissonnette faces six counts of first-degree murder and five attempted murder charges, according to the verified Twitter account of the Quebec Royal Canadian Mounted Police. He was a student at Laval University in Quebec City, according to the school.
Goodale, speaking to reporters at an Ottawa news conference, said the attack was one that would have been difficult to prevent. The terror threat level remains unchanged, he said. 
"At this time, the National Terrorism Threat Level for Canada remains at 'medium,' where it has stood since 2014," Goodale said, referring to the threat level after the October 2014 incident in which Michael Zehaf Bibeau killed Cpl. Nathan Cirilloan, an army reservist, as he stood sentry at Canada's war memorial in Ottawa. 
Witnesses said the mosque gunman fired indiscriminately into the crowd of worshipers, which included men, women and children. 
Laval officials said they "strongly and unreservedly denounce the unacceptable and terrible acts" at the mosque. 
Bissonnette, who was a student in the university's school of social sciences, has been barred from any study or research activities until the end of the current judicial process, the school said. 
Between 2002 and 2004, Bissonnette also participated in the Cadet Program, a nationwide youth program affiliated with the Canadian Armed Forces that focuses on developing skills such as leadership and citizenship, said Maj. Doug Keirstead, spokesman for the Canadian Armed Forces. 
"Cadets are not members of the Canadian Armed Forces and they do not receive military training," Keirstead said. 
No other information was immediately released on Bissonnette, who is in custody.
The province's premier, Philippe Couillard, called the attack an act of terror. 
Many questions remain, and some details have changed as the investigation evolves. Here's what we know so far: 
The attack
It was originally thought two gunmen dressed in black opened fire at the center in Quebec City on Sunday.
Authorities on Monday identified the six slain victims. Mamadou Tanou Barry, 42; Abdelkrim Hassane, 41; Khaled Belkacemi, 60; Aboubaker Thabti, 44; Azzeddine Soufiane, 57; and Ibrahima Barry, 39. 
Five wounded people remained hospitalized Monday, said a spokeswoman for Hôpital de l'Enfant-Jésus. 
The National Police of Quebec said 39 others inside the mosque were not hurt. 
The investigation  
Of the two people arrested Sunday night, only one is now considered a suspect, said Surete de Quebec, the police organization investigating the shooting. 
The other person who was arrested is now considered a witness and not a suspect, as originally believed, police told CNN. 
Authorities have not released a possible motive, but police are investigating the attack as an act of terrorism. They're also trying to determine if the shooter had accomplices. 
CNN partner CBC reported that an attacker called 911 and said he was armed, but said he was willing to cooperate with police. 
The mosque's response
The mosque urged the public to not jump to conclusions or spread unsubstantiated rumors. 
"Please wait for preliminary result (of the investigation) before circulating rumors,"  the Quebec Islamic Cultural Center said on Facebook. "The situation is very critical."
Another post showed the center's gratitude for the "hundreds of messages of compassion coming from all over."
On Monday night, a procession of candle-holding marchers spilled quietly into the snow-packed streets during a vigil and a gathering at the mosque. Two young women stopped as many people as they could and asked mourners if they wanted pins that said "Welcome to all refugees," in French on the top of the pin.
Milena Babin, a volunteer with the Intercultural Center of Quebec, handed the pins out one by one, explaining that the design was by a local artist. 
Babin said the inscription in Arabic at the bottom means welcome to Quebec.
"(The buttons) were originally designed to welcome refugees to Quebec," Babin said.  "But we had some leftover, and thought it was a good idea to distribute them tonight." 
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was among the throngs of people who attended the vigil. He carried a bouquet of flowers.
Some people said they came to support the city's Muslim residents. 
Louis Tardif, 15, said he was horrified when he learned his friend's father was among the victims. 
"I didn't see him at school today," the teenager said. "I don't know when I'll see him again, but I'll be here for him if he needs me."
His message to Muslims around the world: "To stay strong and to do what you want to do"
Mary Christine Miller, 31, who lives nearby, not far from another mosque, struggled to understand why the attack happened. 
"Why?" she said. "They didn't do anything to us, they were just praying."
Mosque was previously targeted
This is not the first time the mosque has been targeted.
Last year, the cultural center received a wrapped pig's head and a magazine with a pig on its cover, saying "Bonne Appetit," according to a post on its Facebook page. The post reads: 
"We just learned that a gesture of hate towards our Great Mosque took place Sunday morning (14 Ramadan) around Salat Al-Fajr! Police was made aware and opened an investigation!"
Under the Quran, pork is prohibited and pigs are considered unclean. 
Quick condemnation
Canada's leaders condemned the attack on social media. 
Trudeau tweeted his condolences in both French and English. 
"Canadians grieve for those killed in a cowardly attack on a mosque in Quebec City. My thoughts are with victims & their families."
Later, in a statement on his official site, Trudeau wrote:
"It is heart-wrenching to see such senseless violence. Diversity is our strength, and religious tolerance is a value that we, as Canadians, hold dear.
"Muslim-Canadians are an important part of our national fabric, and these senseless acts have no place in our communities, cities and country. Canadian law enforcement agencies will protect the rights of all Canadians, and will make every effort to apprehend the perpetrators of this act and all acts of intolerance."
Premier Couillard said Quebec's support of Muslims will not waver. 
"Let's unite against violence," the post reads. "We stand in solidarity with the Muslim people of Quebec." 
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/30/politics/donald-trump-immigration-order-department-of-justice/index.html&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjXsKqHlPXRAhVT02MKHcHkBhQ4RhCnAggqMAc&usg=AFQjCNGT8ph7Yp77PhMVhSa-9DJWOR5mhQ
Trump fires acting AG after she declines to defend travel ban
By Evan Perez and Jeremy Diamond, CNNUpdated 2:37 PM ET, Tue January 31, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)President Donald Trump fired acting Attorney General Sally Yates Monday night for "refusing to enforce a legal order designed to protect the citizens of the United States," the White House said. The Democrats are delaying my cabinet picks for purely political reasons. They have nothing going but to obstruct. Now have an Obama A.G.CNN's Kevin Liptak, Theodore Schleifer and Pamela Brown contributed to this report."(Yates) has betrayed the Department of Justice," the White House statement said.
Dana Boente, US attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, was sworn in at 9 p.m. ET, per an administration official. A few hours later, Boente issued a statement rescinding Yates' order, instructing DOJ lawyers to "defend the lawful orders of our President."
Trump didn't call Yates to dismiss her, she was informed by hand-delivered letter, according to a different administration official.
The dramatic move came soon after CNN reported Yates told Justice Department lawyers not to make legal arguments defending Trump's executive order on immigration and refugees. 
Read the full White House statement 
The move set up a clash between the White House and Yates, who was appointed by President Barack Obama and was set to serve until Sen. Jeff Sessions, Trump's nominee for attorney general, if confirmed. 
"My responsibility is to ensure that the position of the Department of Justice is not only legally defensible, but is informed by our best view of what the law is after consideration of all the facts," she said in a letter. "In addition, I am responsible for ensuring that the positions we take in court remain consistent with this institution's solemn obligation to always seek justice and stand for what is right." 
Trump's executive order, signed Friday, bars citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States for the next 90 days, suspends the admission of all refugees for 120 days and indefinitely suspends the Syrian refugee program. Yates' decision came amid a flood of protests against the executive order nationwide and after four federal judges ruled against Trump's order, staying its impact on people who were detained at US airports over the weekend.
Trump tweeted his response shortly after the news broke, saying Democrats have stymied Sessions' confirmation, enabling Yates.
"The Democrats are delaying my cabinet picks for purely political reasons. They have nothing going but to obstruct. Now have an Obama A.G.," he said.
"At present, I am not convinced that the defense of the executive order is consistent with these responsibilities nor am I convinced that the executive order is lawful," Yates wrote.
Yates' decision was always likely to be extremely short-lived as Sessions is scheduled for a vote in the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday.
White House policy director Stephen Miller, who helped craft the executive order, called Yates' decision "a further demonstration of how politicized our legal system has become."
The US ban: Why these 7?
"It's sad that our politics have become so politicized, that you have people refusing to enforce our laws," Miller said Monday night on MSNBC. 
Miller also defended the executive order's legality, insisting that the Immigration and Nationality Act gives the President "the ability to exclude any class of would-be visitors or immigrants to our country based on our national security interests."
But the decision didn't face the same criticism from Rep. Pete Sessions, a top House Republican, who said Yates' decision was likely similar "to an evaluation that we made."
"And that was it did not appear to be specific in nature," Sessions said referring to the executive order. "So it may be a matter of clarity it may be a matter of illegality to him, it may be a matter of several things. It did not look as complete and succinct as what I think I would've wanted."
Rep. Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the House Oversight Committee, praised Yates for standing up "on principle."
"In all my years as a member of Congress, which now is 21, I've met so many very principled people who truly believe in the Constitution and doing what is right," Cummings said. "There comes a time when people, no matter who may be their boss, they stand upon their principles, so at the end of the day they can look them selves in the mirror and say 'I synchronized my conduct with my conscience.' And Yates is such a person."
Currently, there are cases filed in at least five states including Virginia, New York, Massachusetts, Washington and California that are challenging Trump's order.
The decision effectively grounds the executive order for the next few days until Sessions is sworn in.
"This will be moot. Then we will very much see the Trump Justice Department led by Jeff Sessions defend this executive order pretty vigorously. And then it will be up to the courts," said Steve Vladeck, a CNN contributor and law professor at the University of Texas School of Law.
In a written statement, Obama Attorney General Loretta Lynch lauded Yates, calling her leadership "courageous." 
"(Yates) displayed the fierce intellect, unshakeable integrity, and deep commitment to the rule of law," Lynch said.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer told CNN's Erin Burnett Monday the Justice Department decision reflects poorly on the Trump administration.
"When you do something as important as this, it can't be a Twitter-type of activity," Schumer said. "This has to be thoroughly vetted ... and it's a very bad omen for this presidency."
Activists who have led the fight against Trump's immigration ban lauded Yates' action Monday night.
"We took to the court room, people took to the streets and now principled federal officials are drawing a hardline on this shameful and unconstitutional act by President Trump. This is what we rely on the Department of Justice for, to uphold the rule of law no matter how the political wind is blowing," said Karen Tumlin, the National Immigration Law Center's legal director.
Lee Gelernt, the American Civil Liberties Union lawyer who argued against the immigration ban in court in New York, praised Yates' decision and called on the next attorney general to "continue with that policy."
"This ban will do irreparable damage to real people and to American values," he said.
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/29/politics/donald-trump-immigrant-policy-social-media-contacts/&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjXsKqHlPXRAhVT02MKHcHkBhQ4RhCnAggtMAg&usg=AFQjCNGd3OX5DHrZUW81EYb8VlfRGaTFlg
White House discussing asking foreign visitors for social media info and cell phone contacts
By Jake Tapper, Anchor and Chief Washington CorrespondentUpdated 7:47 AM ET, Mon January 30, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.Washington (CNN)Amid the chaos and confusion of President Donald Trump's new executive order on immigration and refugees, sources tell CNN that White House policy director Stephen Miller spoke with officials of the State Department, Customs and Border Patrol, Department of Homeland Security and others to tell them that the President is deeply committed to the executive order and the public is firmly behind it -- urging them not to get distracted by what he described as hysterical voices on TV.CNN's Eric Bradner, Evan Perez, Pamela Brown, Kevin Liptak, Jeremy Diamond and Steve Almasy contributed to this report. 
Judge halts implementation of Trump immigration order
Miller also noted on Saturday that Trump administration officials are discussing the possibility of asking foreign visitors to disclose all websites and social media sites they visit, and to share the contacts in their cell phones. If the foreign visitor declines to share such information, he or she could be denied entry. Sources told CNN that the idea is just in the preliminary discussion level. The social media posts calling for jihad by San Bernardino terrorist Tashfeen Malik -- made under a pseudonym and with strict privacy settings -- are part of this discussion. How such a policy would be implemented remains under discussion.
More protests against Trump's immigration order 
Miller praised the State Department on Saturday, sources tell CNN, but argued that the government needs to do better job of making sure the people who come into the US embrace American values.
White House press secretary Sean Spicer did not respond to a request for comment.
Already, Politico reported in December, the US government had quietly begun asking that foreign visitors provide their social media accounts voluntarily. The Obama administration had previously approved asking for much more information from people on terror watch lists, The Intercept reported in 2014.
Trump's executive order bars citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States for the next 90 days and suspends the admission of all refugees for 120 days.
Trump's unilateral moves, which have drawn the ire of human rights groups and prompted protests at US airports, reflect the President's desire to quickly make good on his campaign promises. But they also encapsulate the pitfalls of an administration largely operated by officials with scant federal experience.
It wasn't until Friday -- the day Trump signed the order banning travel from seven Muslim-majority countries for 90 days and suspending all refugee admission for 120 days -- that career homeland security staff were allowed to see the final details of the order, a person familiar with the matter said.
The result was widespread confusion across the country on Saturday as airports struggled to adjust to the new directives. In New York, two Iraqi nationals sued the federal government after they were detained at John F. Kennedy International Airport, and 10 others were detained as well.
Trump on Sunday defended his recent executive order on extreme vetting, saying in a statement: "We will continue to show compassion to those fleeing oppression, but we will do while protecting our own citizens and voters."
He added: "This is not a Muslim ban, as the media is falsely reporting. This is not about religion -- this is about terror and keeping our country safe."
He said his first priority "will always be to protect and serve our country, but as President I will find ways to help all of those who are suffering."
http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/30/us/boy-scouts-transgender-membership/index.html&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjXsKqHlPXRAhVT02MKHcHkBhQ4RhCnAggwMAk&usg=AFQjCNFR1pUh_DsCBMRP0FG15Pk-V7VT4Q
Boy Scouts open membership to transgender boys
Set edition preference:Set edition preference:Set edition preference:By Emanuella Grinberg, CNNUpdated 10:18 AM ET, Tue January 31, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. (CNN)The Boy Scouts of America says it will begin accepting members based on their gender identity, opening the door for transgender boys to join.CNN's Jamiel Lynch contributed to this report.Under the new policy, which takes effect immediately, membership in Cub Scouts and Boy Scouts will be based on the gender indicated on an application. 
Previously, the organization relied on an individual's birth certificate to determine eligibility for its single-gender programs. 
"However, that approach is no longer sufficient as communities and state laws are interpreting gender identity differently, and these laws vary widely from state to state," BSA spokeswoman Effie Delimarkos said in a statement Monday.
The change brings the Boy Scouts in line with other youth organizations, including the Girl Scouts, that have created transgender-friendly membership policies in recent years.
It comes a few months after an 8-year-old Cub Scout in New Jersey accused the organization of expelling him for being transgender. 
The Boy Scouts did not specifically cite the New Jersey case in its statement. But Chief Scout Executive Michael Surbaugh acknowledged the group recently had been "challenged by a very complex topic... the issue of gender identity."
"We've taken the opportunity to evaluate and update our approach. I hope you'll join with me in embracing the opportunity to bring scouting to more families and children who can benefit from what our organization has to offer," he said in video statement.
"This is an area that we will continue to thoughtfully evaluate to bring the benefits of scouting to the greatest number of youth possible all while remaining true to our core beliefs."
Zach Wahls, co-founder of Scouts for Equality, applauded the decision and credited the New Jersey case with forcing BSA to rethink its policy.
"This is another historic day for the Boy Scouts of America. The decision to allow transgender boys to participate in the Cub Scouts and the Boy Scouts is an important step forward for this American institution," Wahls said.
"We are incredibly proud of Joe Maldonado -- the transgender boy from New Jersey whose expulsion last year ignited this controversy -- and his mother Kristie for their courage in doing what they knew was right. We are also proud of the Boy Scouts for deciding to do the right thing. We look forward to seeing more detail clarifying this policy change in the days and weeks ahead."
The Boys Scouts of America has come under fire in the past over LGBT issues. In 2015, it lifted the ban on gay adults as Scout leaders. And it was only three years ago that it allowed allowed openly gay youths to join scouting.
